deleterious	harmful
myopic	nearsighted; lacking foresight; N. myopia
xenophobia	 fear or hatred of foreigners; N. xenophobe
blemish	mar; spoil the beauty or perfection of; N: flaw or defect (that spoils perfection); Ex. blemishes in the crystal; CF. unblemished
significant	expressing a meaning; important; Ex. significant smile; N. significance: importance; meaning; V. signify: denote; mean; signal; make known; matter; be significant
deliberate	consider; ponder; ADJ: done on purpose; slow
phalanx	formation of infantry carrying overlapping shields and long spears; group of men packed together (for attack or defense)
maelstrom	violent whirlpool; violent or tublent situation; CF. stream
whorl	ring of leaves around stem; ring; circular arrangement; Ex. whorls on the fingers
feebleminded	deficient in intelligence; very stupid
qualms	uneasy feelings; misgivings; uneasy fears especially about matters of conscience; Ex. I have no qualms about giving this assignment to Helen.
impasse	predicament(dangerous condition) from which there is no escape; situation allowing for no further progress
bequeath	leave to someone by means of a will; hand down in his will; N. bequest
momentous	very important; N. moment; CF. momentary
reverend	deserving reverence; N: priest
condiments	seasonings; spices
inamorata	woman whom a man loves
resignation	patiently submissiveness; statement that one is quitting a job; ADJ. resigned: acquiescent
equitable	fair; impartial; OP. inequitable
congruent	in agreement; harmonious; corresponding; coinciding exactly; CF. congruous
opalescent	iridescent; lustrous; like an opal; N. opalescence
panegyric	formal praise; encomium; Ex. I don't deserve such panegyrics.
anthem	song of praise or patriotism; Ex. national anthem
yen	 strong desire; longing; urge; Ex. yen for travel
dowdy	untidy (of a woman or clothes); slovenly; dressed in an unattractive way; shabby; CF. unattractive woman
flail	beat with or as if with a flail; move wildly; thresh grain by hand; strike or slap; toss about; N: threshing tool consisting of a stick swinging from the end of a long handle
apparent	evident; easily seen or understood; appearing as such; Ex. apparent improvement
frisk	move about playfully; froric; ADJ. frisky: playful
immolate	offer or kill as a sacrifice (by fire)
skiff	small light sailboat or rowboat
fray	brawl; fight; V: wear away or unravel by rubbing; have loose threads developing; cause to become worn out (a person's temper or nerves); CF. rub
hiatus	gap; pause; gap or interruption in space or time; break
stump	base of a tree trunk left after the rest has been cut down; V: walk in a heavy manner; baffle; puzzle
provender	dry food for livestock; fodder
pestilential(pestilent)	causing plague; tending to cause death; baneful; N. pestilence: fatal epidemic disease (esp. bubonic plague)
gracious	kind in a generous way (to someone less important)
sloth	slow moving tree-dwelling mammal; laziness; ADJ. slothful: lazy; indolent
striated	marked with parallel bands; striped; grooved; Ex. striated rocks; V. striate; N. stria: thin groove or line
gravity	seriousness; ADJ. grave
torrent	rushing stream; flood; Ex. The rain fell in torrents.
deciduous	falling off at a specific season or stage of growth as of leaves; Ex. deciduous tree/teeth
resentment	indignation; bitterness; displeasure; V. resent: feel anger about
sycophant	servile flatterer; bootlicker; yes man; ADJ. sycophantic
formidable	menacing; arousing fear; threatening; difficult to defeat; Ex. formidable foe/question
recrimination	countercharges; V. recriminate
antipathy	aversion; dislike or opposition
moodiness	fits of depression or gloom; ADJ. moody: given to changeable moods; subject to periods of depression; gloomy CF. mood: | state of mind or emotion
quibble	minor objection or complaint; V: raise minor objections; carp; cavil
ideology	system of ideas characteristic of a group or culture
rudimentary	elementary; not developed; crude; N. rudiment: fundamental element or principle; Ex. rudiments of the language
dysentery	inflammatory disorder of the lower intestinal tract
penumbra	partial shadow (in an eclipse); CF. almost shadow
pigment	coloring matter (usually powder to be mixed with water or oil)
expatriate	exile; someone who has withdrawn from his native land; V: exile; banish; leave one's country
revulsion	sudden strong feeling of disgust; sudden violent change of feeling; negative reaction; Ex. revulsion from the scenes of torture
citadel	fortress
cantata	story set to music to be sung by a chorus (shorter than an oratorio)
treasure	keep as precious; cherish
verbiage	pompous array of words; too many unnecessary words; wordiness
polarize	split into opposite extremes or camps
nubile	marriageable; of marriageable age; CF. connubial
brawn	human muscle; muscular strength; sturdiness
promulgate	announce; proclaim a doctrine or law; make known by official publication
daunt	intimidate; frighten; discourage; dishearten
incarnation	act of assuming a human body and human nature; one who personifies something; personification; Ex. previous incarnation/reincarnation
flout	reject; mock; show contempt for; scorn; Ex. flout the rules
falsify	make (something written) false by changing
renounce	abandon; give up (by formal announcement); disown; repudiate; Ex. renounce one's claim to the property/one's religion; N. renunciation
histrionic	theatrical; excessively dramatic or emotional; affected; of actors or acting; N. histrionics: histrionic behavior
commodious	spacious and comfortable
actuary	someone who advises insurance companies
expeditious	done with speed; quick; N. expedition
distinction	honor; excellence; difference; contrast; discrimination; Ex. graduated with distinction; Ex. a writer of real distinction
erroneous	mistaken; wrong; incorrect
wistful	sadly thoughtful (because of desires or memories); sadly pensive; vaguely longing
defect	shortcoming; V: desert (in order to join the opposite one)
incongruity	lack of harmony; absurdity; ADJ. incongruous: lacking in harmony; inappropriate
tanner	person who turns animal hides into leather
archipelago	group of closely located islands
denotation	meaning; distinguishing by name; V. denote: indicate; refer to directly; mean; CF. connotation
dubious	questionable; (of something) causing doubt; (of someone) filled with doubt; N. dubiety
tactile	pertaining to the organs or sense of touch
sublimate	refine; purify; replace (natural urges) with socially acceptable activities; change between a solid state and a gaseous state
recession	withdrawal; retreat; time of low economic activity
fructify	bear fruit; produce fruit
prepossessing	attractive; CF. preoccupying ?
heterogeneous	dissimilar; mixed; not homogeneous; consisting of dissimilar elements or plants
gaudy	flashy; showy
copious	plentiful
obese	excessively fat; N. obesity
bandy	discuss lightly or glibly; discuss in a frivolous manner; exchange (words) heatedly; quarrel; Ex. bandy words with
wallow	roll in mud; indulge in; (of a ship) roll in a rough sea; become helpless; Ex. wallow in the mud/luxury
beatific	giving or showing bliss; blissful
homogeneous	of the same kind; uniform in composition throughout
fetish(fetich)	object believed to have spiritual powers; object of excessive attention or reverence; CF. fetishism
worldly	engrossed in matters of this earth; not spiritual; of the material world
pore	study industriously; ponder; scrutinize; Ex. pore over the book; N.
constitution	constituting; system of laws; composition of something; physical makeup or structure of a person; Ex. men with strong constitutions
stipulate	state as a necessary condition (of an agreement); make express conditions; specify; Ex. He stipulated payment in advance
palatial	of or suitable for a palace; magnificent
groove	long narrow channel made in a surface to guide the movement of something; Ex. groove of the record
dainty	delicate; delicately beautiful; fastidious; not easy to please; Ex. dainty movement/dress
venerable	deserving high respect; commanding respect; CF. command: deserve and get
pestle	tool for mashing or grinding substances in a hard bowl or mortar
devotee	enthusiastic follower; enthusiast; Ex. devotee of Bach
monastic	related to monks or monasteries; removed from worldly concerns
plane	carpenter's tool for smoothing and leveling wood; V. CF. flat
irrelevant	not applicable; unrelated
assay	analyze (to discover what materials are present); evaluate (soil or ore)
subliminal	below the threshold of conscious perception; Ex. subliminal advertisement
bantering	joking talk; good-naturedly ridiculing; N.V. banter
unwonted	unaccustomed; unusual; Ex. He arrived with unwonted punctuality.
engulf	surround and swallow up
sojourn	temporary stay; V: stay for a time
potpourri	heterogeneous mixture; medley; mixture of dried flower petals a pot (to give a pleasant smell to a room)
gouge	overcharge (with high price); extort from; Ex. gouge the public; CF. usury
extant	(of something written or painted) still in existence
incredulous	withholding belief; skeptical; showing disbelief
humor	indulge; comply with the wishes of; N. quality that makes something amusing; state of mind; mood; Ex. in a bad humor; Ex. out of humor
self-righteous	sure of one's own righteousness; moralistic
entomology	study of insects
procrastinate	postpone; delay or put off
trivia	trifles; unimportant matters
orient	get one's bearings; adjust; make familiar with a situation; orientate
florescence	condition or period of flowering
adjuration	solemn urging; V. adjure: entreat earnestly; enjoin solemnly
polarity	state of having two opposite qualities
havoc	widespread damage; disorder; chaos
induct	place formally in office; install; admit as a member; initiate; N. induction: inducting; process of deriving general principles from particular facts
epistemologist	philosopher who studies the nature of knowledge; N. epistemology
distinct	clearly different; clearly noticed
threadbare	worn through till the threads show; shabby and poor; hackneyed; Ex. threadbare excuses
avow	declare openly; N. avowal
impugn	dispute or contradict (often in an insulting way); attack as false or questionable; challenge; gainsay; CF. fight
trickle	flow in drops or in a thin stream; N.
besiege	surround with armed forces; harass (with requests); annoy continually
harangue	long, passionate, and vehement speech; V.
unregenerate	making no attempt to change one's bad practices
wily	crafty; cunning; artful; N. wile: deceitful stratagem
caucus	private meeting of a group of people in a political party to select officers or determine policy; CF. the Caucus club of Boston
magnanimity	generosity; ADJ. magnanimous: generous
somnambulist	sleepwalker; V. somnambulate; N. somnambulism
mural	wall painting
parable	short simple story teaching a moral
disingenuous	not naive; not candid; sophisticated; worldly wise; OP. ingenuous
inasmuch_as	since; owing to the fact that
nebulous	vague; hazy; cloudy; of a nebula; Ex. nebulous proposal
dys-	abnormal; impaired
prehensile	capable of grasping or holding (esp. by wrapping around); Ex. prehensile tails
deadlock	standstill resulting from the opposition of two unrelenting forces; stalemate
pulverize	crush or grind into very small particles
fluke	unlikely occurrence; stroke of fortune; accidental stroke of good luck; ADJ. fluky
clap	strike the palms of the hands together with a sudden explosive sound; come together suddenly with a sharp sound; put or send promptly; Ex. clap the thief in jail; N: clapping; loud or explosive sound; CF. applause
renege	break a promise; deny; go back on; Ex. renege on the contract/paying off the debt
hygiene	science and practice of the promotion and preservation of health; ADJ. hygienic: showing careful attention to cleanness (to prevent disease); Ex. hygienic condition
junket	trip especially one taken for pleasure by an official at public expense
jargon	language used by special group; technical terminology; gibberish; nonsensical or incoherent talk
abrogate	abolish
blackball	vote against (an applicant); ostracize; N: negative vote
plump	pleasantly fat; nicely rounded
chaste	morally pure; virginal; abstaining from illicit sexual acts; modest; simple (of a style of writing); not highly decorated; austere
doctrine	teachings in general; particular principle (religious, legal, etc.) taught; dogma; tenet; ADJ. doctrinal
urgent	compelling immediate action; pressing; persistent; importunate; Ex. urgent in his demands
expedient	suitable (for a particular purpose although not necessarily morally correct); practical; politic(prudent); N: something expedient
aver	state confidently; declare as true
urge	drive or force forward (by causing impulses); drive to take action; impel; entreat earnestly; Ex. urge horses; N: impulse that prompts action
affidavit	written statement made under oath (for use as proof in a court of law)
accoutre	equip; N. accoutrement
wince	move back suddenly; shrink back; flinch; Ex. She winced as she touched the cold body.
euphony	sweet sound; ADJ. euphonious
travesty	copy or example of something that completely misrepresents the true nature of the real thing; comical parody or imitation; treatment aimed at making something appear ridiculous; Ex. travesty of justice; OP. paragon
expound	explain
cemetery	place for burying the dead
prurient	having or causing lustful desires and thoughts; arousing immoderate sexual desire
indiscriminate	choosing at random; confused; not based on careful distinctions
retroactive	taking effect before its enactment (as a law) or imposition (as a tax); (of a law) having effect on the past as well as the future
mass	Christian religious ceremony; CF. Mass: ceremony of the Eucharist
marred	damaged; disfigured; V. mar: spoil; disfigure
codify	arrange (laws or rules) as a code; classify; N. code: system of words used instead of ordinary writing; collection of laws, rules, established social customs
largess	generous gift (given to people who do not have enough)
paleontology	study of prehistoric life or fossils; CF. paleo-: ancient or prehistoric; Ex. paleography: study of ancient written documents
anthropologist	student of the history and science of humankind
bacchanal	noisy party with a lot of drinking
sparse	not thick; thinly scattered; scanty
palliate	ease pain (without curing); make less severe or offensive (a crime or illness)
nonchalance	indifference; lack of concern; composure; ADJ. nonchalant: unconcerned; cool; indifferent; Ex. nonchalant attitude to his debts
noose	loop formed in a rope
pass\'e	old-fashioned; past the prime
ossify	change or harden into bone; become hard and unchanging in one's ideas
apostate	one who abandons his religious faith or political beliefs; N. apostasy
desperado	reckless, desperate outlaw
inanimate	lifeless; not animate
craft	skill (esp. with one's hands); skill in deceiving people; guile; ADJ. crafty: cleverly deceitful; cunning
duration	length of time something lasts
malcontent	person dissatisfied with existing state of affairs; discontented person; ADJ: discontented
exonerate	acquit; exculpate; free from blame or guilt
loiter	hang about/around; stand idly about; linger
attest	testify; bear witness
illuminate	brighten; clear up or make understandable; enlighten; enable to understand; Ex. illuminating remarks
nova	star that suddenly becomes much brighter and then returns to its original brightness
castrate	remove the sex organs (of a male animal or person)
rou\'e	lecherous man
forte	strong point or special talent in a person's character
wanton	unrestrained; gratuitously cruel; willfully malicious; unchaste; sexually improper; promiscuous; Ex. wanton spending/killing; CF. having no just cause
extrapolation	projection; conjecture; V. extrapolate: infer (unknown information) from known information
torque	twisting force; force producing rotation
monolithic	solidly uniform; unchangeable; unyielding; N. monolith: large block of stone
resilient	elastic; having the power of springing back; able to recover quickly (as from misfortune)
herd	group of animals; crowd; one who looks after a herd; Ex. shepherd/goatherd; Ex. herd instinct; Ex. herdsman; V: come together in a herd; look after a herd; Ex. herd cattle
delirium	mental disorder marked by confusion; uncontrolled excitement; ADJ. delirious
degenerate	become worse in quality; deteriorate; ADJ: having become worse; Ex. a degenerate species; N: depraved or corrupt person
exotic	not native; from another part of the world; strange; intriguingly unusual; Ex. exotic flower/dress
brisk	quick and active; marked by liveliness and vigor
inundate	flood; overflow; submerge; cover completely; Ex. inundated with work
disbar	make (a lawyer) leave the bar or the legal profession
prescience	ability to foretell the future; knowledge of actions before they occur; ADJ. prescient
archaeology	study of artifacts and relics of early mankind
astringent	binding; causing contraction (stopping bleeding); harsh or severe; stringent; Ex. astringent criticism
gerontocracy	government ruled by old people
reprobate	morally disapproved person; person hardened in sin, devoid of a sense of decency; CF. disapproved by God ?
benison	blessing
narrative	related to telling a story; N: narrated account; story; V. narrate: tell (a story); CF. narration
promiscuous	mixed indiscriminately; indiscriminate; not choosing carefully; indiscriminate in the choice of sexual partners; irregular, particularly sexually; Ex. promiscuous life/girl; N. promiscuity
hone	sharpen (a tool); N: whetstone for sharpening a tool
ecstasy	rapture; very strong feeling of joy and happiness; any overpowering emotion; ADJ. ecstatic: causing or experiencing ecstasy
catapult	slingshot; hurling machine; V: fire from catapult
stilted	bombastic; stiffly pompous; Ex. stilted rhetoric; CF. stiff: formal
lionize	treat (a person) as a celebrity
delusion	false belief; hallucination; deluding; Ex. delusions of grandeur; Ex. under the delusion that
cognate	having a common origin; related linguistically; allied by blood; similar or akin in nature; Ex. cognate languages; N.
rile	irritate; vex; muddy
paranoia	psychosis marked by delusions of grandeur or persecution; N: ADJ: paranoid, paranoiac
irrevocable	unalterable; irreversible; impossible to revoke
malodorous	foul-smelling
recumbent	reclining; lying down completely or in part
retaliate	repay in kind (usually for bad treatment); V. retaliate
fetid(foetid)	malodorous; foul
rant	speak violently or excitedly; rave; talk excitedly showing anger; scold; make a grandiloquent speech; Ex. The priest ranted about the devil.
laggard	slow; sluggish; N: one who lags; straggler
admonish	warn or speak to with gentle disapproval; reprove
bauble	trinket; cheap jewel; trifle
quaint	odd in an old-fashioned way; odd; old-fashioned; picturesque
mawkish	mushy(sentimental) and gushy; icky-sticky sentimental; excessively and objectionably sentimental
denouement	final outcome; final development of the plot of a play or other literary work; the end of a story when everything is explained
intelligentsia	intellectuals; members of the educated elite (often used derogatorily)
violate	break (a law); defile; desecrate; assault sexually; Ex. violate graves
congruence	correspondence of parts; harmonious relationship; CF. congruity
career	rush wildly; go at full speed
rumble	make or move with a deep rolling sound (as thunder or stomach)
disembark	debark; go ashore (from a ship); unload cargo from a ship; CF. embark
halting	hesitant; faltering; not fluent; Ex. halting steps/voice; V. halt: proceed or act with uncertainty; falter; hesitate; waver; stop
regicide	murder of a king or queen
recount	narrate or tell (a story); count over again
bacchanalian	drunken
recourse	resorting to help when in trouble; Ex. without recourse to
enterprising	full of initiative; showing enterprise
dichotomy	division into two opposite parts; split; branching into two parts (especially contradictory ones)
proliferate	grow rapidly (in numbers); spread; multiply; N. proliferation
annex	attach; add to a large thing; take possession of; incorporate (territory) into a larger existing political unit (by force); N: building added to a large one
stench	strong foul odor; reek; stink
meander	wind or turn in its course; follow a winding or turning course; move aimlessly and idly
rare	(of air) thin in density; rarefied; Ex. rare air of the mountains
kleptomaniac	person who has a compulsive desire to steal
vie	contend; compete
palette	board on which painter mixes pigments(coloring matters)
ordain	decree or command; grant holy orders; predestine; install as a minister, priest, or rabbi; N. ordainment; CF. ordination
amok(amuck)	in a state of rage; Ex. run amok
tenuous	thin; slim; rare
podiatrist	doctor who treats ailments of the feet; chiropodist; N. podiatrics
distort	twist out of shape; give a false account of; misrepresent; N. distortion
countermand	cancel; revoke (an order)
jaundice	medical condition in which the skin, the white part of the eyes, etc. turn yellow; V: affect with jaundice; affect with prejudice, envy, or hostility; bias
disgorge	surrender something (stolen); eject; vomit; OP. gorge
console	lessen sadness or disappointment; give comfort; allay the sorrow of; N. consolation
apiarist	person who keeps bees
grudging	unwilling; reluctant; stingy(giving reluctantly)
casualty	serious or fatal accident; person killed or wounded in an accident or battle
supposititious	assumed; counterfeit; hypothetical
embargo	ban on commerce or other activity
meter	arrangement of words in the form of poetry (by accentual rhythm)
contrivance	something contrived; machine or apparatus; clever deceitful plan; scheme
exquisite	delicate; very finely made; extremely beautiful; Ex. exquisite piece of jewelry
embezzlement	taking for one's own use in violation of trust; stealing (of money placed in one's care)
metaphor	implied comparison; CF. simile
sequester	isolate; segregate; seclude; retire from public life
corpulent	very fat; N. corpulence
bestial	beastlike; brutal; inhuman; very cruel
gild	cover with a thin layer of gold
vouch	give a personal guarantee; Ex. I can vouch for his integrity; N. voucher
expedite	hasten; make go faster
grimace	facial distortion to show feeling such as pain, disgust, etc; V.
solicitor	lawyer in the lower court of law
colloquial	pertaining to conversational or common speech; informal; N. colloquialism: colloquial expression
compilation	listing of information in tabular or book form; compiling
indolent	lazy
invoke	call and bring into use (a right or law); call on/upon (a higher power or god) for help; ask for; beg for; conjure (a spirit); Ex. invoke the veto power; Ex. invoke one's advisor/God
fiend	evil spirit; devil
abbreviate	shorten
indissoluble	permanent; impossible to dissolve or disintegrate
vibrant	full of vigor or energy; vibrating
cache	hiding place; V.
forsake	desert; abandon; renounce
comeuppance	deserts; well-deserved punishment or misfortune; rebuke
distill	refine (a liquid by evaporating and subsequent condensation); concentrate; separate the most important parts from; Ex. distill fresh water from sea water; CF. brew
beneficiary	person entitled to benefits or proceeds of an insurance policy or will
ravage	devastate; plunder; despoil; Ex. crops ravaged by storms
impeach	charge (a public official) with crime in office; raise doubts about; indict; Ex. impeach a witness's credibility
forward	presumptuous or bold
prate	talk idly; speak foolishly; boast idly
fit	sudden outburst of an illness or feeling; convulsion caused by epilepsy
patronize	support; act superior toward; treat in a condescending manner; be a customer of; N. patron: one that supports; regular customer; N. patronage; CF. boycott
forthright	straightforward; direct; frank
precipitate	hurl downward; throw headlong; hasten; cause to happen sooner; condense and fall as rain or snow; cause (a solid substance) to be separated from a solution; ADJ. hasty; rash; premature; sudden
sophist	teacher of philosophy; quibbler; employer of fallacious reasoning; N. sophism: plausible but fallacious argument
distend	expand; swell out
rickety	(of buildings) likely to break or fall apart; of rickets; CF. rickets; CF. vitamin D
endearment	fond word or act; expression of affection
commemorative	remembering; honoring the memory of; Ex. commemorative stamp
incarcerate	imprison
outfit	clothing or equipment for a special purpose; Ex. cowboy outfit
fritter	waste (time or money on unimportant things)
resplendent	brilliant; splendid in appearance; dazzling; glorious
descry	catch sight of (something distant)
animadversion	critical remark; V. animadvert: comment critically with disapproval
sporadic	occurring irregularly; intermittent
deterrent	something that discourages or deters
forum	public square of an ancient Roman city; public place for open discussion; court of law
exigency	urgent situation; ADJ. exigent
sherbet	flavored dessert ice
brook	tolerate; endure; Ex. brook no interference; N: small stream
proselytize	(induce someone to) convert to a religion or belief; N. proselyte: new convert to a doctrine or religion
acidulous	slightly sour (in taste or manner); sharp; caustic
viscid	adhesive; gluey
requisition	formal demand or request; Ex. requisition for more computing equipment; V.
voluminous	having great volume (as of a garment or container); bulky; large
infernal	pertaining to hell; devilish; N. inferno: place of fiery heat or destruction
metallurgical	pertaining to the art of removing metals from ores; N. metallurgy: science that deals with extracting metals from ores
leash	restraining rope fastened to the collar of an animal (to control it); Ex. a dog on a leash
implicate	incriminate; involve incriminatingly; show to be involved (in a crime); Ex. implicate someone in the crime
servile	slavish; cringing; N. servility
jaunty	cheerful and pleased with life; lighthearted; animated; easy and carefree; dapper in appearance; Ex. jaunty person/hat
aegis	shield; protection; defense
torrid	(of weather) hot or scorching; passionate; Ex. torrid love affairs
emolument	salary; payment for an office; compensation
saturate	soak thoroughly; imbue; impregnate; charge; fill to capacity
communal	held in common; public; of a group of people; of a commune
serpentine	winding; twisting; of or like a serpent; Ex. serpentine course of the river; N. serpent: snake
tentative	not fully worked out or developed; provisional; experimental; uncertain; hesitant; not definite or positive; Ex. tentative agreement/reply
judiciary	judicial branch of government
legato	(of music) played smoothly
verisimilitude	appearance of truth; quality of appearing to be true or real; likelihood; Ex. verisimilitude of her performance as Lady Macbeth
shirk	avoid (responsibility, work, etc.); malinger
bewitch	cast a spell over; captivate completely
betray	be unfaithful; reveal (unconsciously or unwillingly); Ex. Her trembling hands betray her anxiety.
stalwart	physically strong; brawny; steadfast; strong in mind or determination; Ex. stalwart supporter; N: stalwart follower
mercantile	concerning trade or merchants
stentorian	(of the voice) extremely loud; CF. Stentor: a loud herald in the Iliad
alliteration	repetition of beginning sound in poetry
aromatic	fragrant; having a sweet smell; N. aroma: strong pleasant smell
digression	wandering away from the subject; V. digress
ordeal	severe trial or affliction; difficult experience; trial(test of patience or endurance); affliction
malapropism	comic misuse of a word; CF. Mrs. Malaprop
aphorism	pithy maxim or saying; ADJ. aphoristic
filth	dirty matter; ADJ. filthy
warranted	justified; authorized
didactic	(of speech or writing) intended to teach a moral lesson; teaching; instructional; N. didacticism
nomadic	wandering; N. nomad: tribe who migrates from place to place
receptive	quick or willing to receive (ideas, suggestions, etc.); Ex. receptive to the proposal
unscathed	unharmed; Ex. escape the accident unscathed
tycoon	wealthy and powerful businessperson; wealthy leader; magnate; Ex. business tycoon
fancier	breeder or dealer of animals; one who has a special interest, as for raising specific plant or animal
incognito	with identity concealed; using an assumed name; ADJ.
apprise	inform
dormer	window projecting upright from roof; CF. sleeping room
loll	lounge about
shed	small roofed structure for storage and shelter; V: pour forth; lose by natural process; repel without allowing penetration; radiate; cast; Ex. shed tears/light/water/skin/leaves
euthanasia	mercy killing
nourish	provide with food necessary for life and growth
subsistence	existence; means of subsisting; means of support; livelihood; V. subsist: exist; maintain life (at a meager level)
bilious	suffering from indigestion; sick from having too much bile; irritable; easily irritated
bungle	mismanage; blunder; botch; blow; spoil by clumsy behavior
paste	smooth viscous mixture as of flour(powder made by crushing grain) and water (used as an adhesive); V: cause to adhere by applying paste
smart	intelligent; quick and energetic; fashionable; Ex. smart pace/restaurant; V: cause or feel a sharp pain; N: smarting pain
waylay	ambush; lie in wait for and attack
bilk	swindle; cheat
laud	praise; N. ADJ. laudable: praiseworthy; ADJ. laudatory: expressing praise
gerontology	study of the sociological phenomena associated with old age
impuissance	powerlessness; feebleness
proclivity	inclination; natural tendency (esp. towards something bad)
tout	promote or publicize (one's goods or service); praise excessively (as a form of advertisement); CF. advertise
corroborate	confirm; support; strengthen
stockade	wooden enclosure or pen; fixed line of posts used as defensive barrier
sophomoric	immature; half-baked; like a sophomore
clarion	shrill, trumpetlike sound; kind of trumpet used in former times
menial	suitable for servants; lowly; mean; N: someone who does menial work (esp. servant in a house)
plausible	conceivably true; having a show of truth but open to doubt; specious
aggrandize	make greater; increase in power, wealth, rank, or honor; N. aggrandizement
groom	man employed to take care of horses; V: make neat and trim; clean and brush (an animal)
flush	redden; blush; flow suddenly and abundantly; wash out by a rapid brief flow of water; N: reddish tinge; blush; brief rush; rush of strong feeling; Ex. flush of pride; ADJ: having surfaces in the same plane; even; blushing
unguent	ointment
contentious	quarrelsome; controversial; likely to cause arguments
impassable	not able to be traveled or crossed
immobility	state of being immovable
vertigo	severe dizziness; giddiness
congeal	freeze; coagulate
mollycoddle	pamper; coddle; baby; indulge excessively
scrupulous	conscientious; extremely thorough; Ex. scrupulous worker
avalanche	great mass of falling snow and ice
sleek	smooth and shining (as from good health); V.
intermittent	periodic; on and off; stopping and starting at intervals
defeatist	resigned to defeat or failure; accepting defeat or failure as a natural outcome; N. CF. defeatism
catharsis	purging or cleansing of any passage of the body; purging and weakening of strong emotions as a result of experiencing a dramatic work of art
caricature	distortion; burlesque
gobble	eat very quickly
ordinance	decree; authoritative order
constituent	supporter; voter; member of a constituency; component
renegade	deserter; traitor; ADJ.
unison	unity of pitch (in musical performance); complete accord; Ex. The choir sang in unison.
idolatry	worship of idols; excessive admiration or devotion; ADJ. idolatrous
antecede	precede
eccentricity	oddity; idiosyncrasy
hovel	shack; small wretched house
plight	difficult condition; condition or state (esp. a bad state or condition); predicament
foresight	ability to foresee future happenings; prudence in providing for the future
abet	assist usually in doing something wrong; encourage
ascetic	practicing self-denial; avoiding physical pleasures and comforts; austere; Ex. ascetic life of Buddhist monks; N. asceticism
gullible	easily deceived
versatile	having many talents; capable of working in many fields; having many uses or functions; N. versatility
filial	pertaining to or befitting a son or daughter; Ex. filial respect
panacea	cure-all; remedy for all diseases
taint	contaminate; cause to lose purity; modify with a trace of something bad; Ex. tainted reputation; N: stain; touch of decay or bad influence; CF. touch
braggart	boaster; bragger
platitude	trite remark; commonplace statement; ADJ. platitudinous
brand	trademark; mark burned on the hide of an animal; mark burned into the flesh of criminals; mark of disgrace; V: mark with a brand; give a lasting bad name; stigmatize; Ex. The press branded him a liar.
thematic	of a theme; relating to a unifying motif or idea
bovine	cowlike; placid and dull; slow-thinking; calm
bane	posion; cause of ruin; ADJ. baneful: harmful; poisonous
wake	trail of ship or other object through water; path of something that has gone before; Ex. hunger followed in the wake of the war
balk	stop short, as if faced with an obstacle, and refuse to continue; foil; stop or get in the way of; frustrate
arrears	being in debt; money that should have been paid; work that should have been done
alacrity	cheerful promptness without reluctance
grievance	cause of complaint; complaint
anachronism	an error involving time in a story; something or someone misplaced in time; ADJ. anachronistic
pushy	disagreeably aggressive
warp	twist out of shape; N.
saturnine	morose; gloomy; Ex. Do not be misled by his saturnine countenance.
Spartan	without attention to comfort; lacking luxury and comfort; sternly disciplined; Ex. spartan living condition/life
debunk	expose as false, exaggerated, worthless, etc.; ridicule
eminent	rising above others; high; lofty; distinguished; Ex. eminent position
tenacity	firmness; persistence
rapport	close relationship; emotional closeness; harmony
banal	hackneyed; commonplace; trite; lacking originality; clich\'ed
illicit	illegal
unassuaged	unsatisfied; not soothed
adventitious	accidental; casual; happening by chance
colloquy	informal discussion; conversation
lineaments	features especially of the face; distinctive shape or contour of the face; CF. line
equable	tranquil; of even calm temper; (of temperature) steady; uniform
parity	equality; close resemblance; CF. disparate
scurvy	contemptible; despicable; N: disease caused by deficiency of Vitamin C
raffle	lottery; V: award as a prize in a raffle; Ex. raffle off a new car
sully	defile; soil; tarnish; Ex. sully one's hands in menial labor
rarefied	made less dense (of a gas); V. rarefy: make less dense; N. rarefaction
adverse	going against; opposing; unfavorable; hostile
prude	excessively modest or proper person (who is easily shocked by improper things, esp. of a sexual nature); N. prudery; ADJ. prudish: excessively concerned with propriety
stultify	make stupid in mind; cause to appear or become stupid or inconsistent; suppress; frustrate or hinder; Ex. stultifying effect of uninteresting work; Ex. stultify free expression
high-flown	highly pretentious or inflated
refute	disprove; prove to be false; N. refutation
brindled	tawny or grayish with streaks or spots (of animals)
burnish	make shiny by rubbing; polish
sly	clever in deceiving; secretive; not telling one's intentions
heedless	not noticing; disregarding
ornate	excessively or elaborately decorated
perpetual	everlasting
cant	insincere speech or expression of piety; jargon of thieves; special words used by a particular group of people
acclimate	adjust to climate or environment; adapt
connivance	pretense of ignorance of something wrong; assistance; permission to offend; V. connive: feign ignorance (of a wrong); cooperate secretly in an illegal action; conspire
covert	secret; hidden; implied; OP. overt
scruple	hesitate for ethical reasons; fret about; Ex. She did not scruple to read his diary; N: uneasy feeling arising from conscience; conscience
economy	efficiency or conciseness in using something; thrifty management of resources
consecrate	dedicate; sanctify; declare as sacred; Ex. consecrate one's life to helping the poor
antler	bony growth on the head of a deer
commemorate	honor the memory of; serve as a memorial to; Ex. commemorate the 100th anniversary/those who died in the war
oligarchy	government by a privileged few
slaughter	killing of animals for food; massacre; V: butcher (animals) for food; kill in large numbers
transpire	(of a fact) become known; be revealed; happen; give off (watery waste matter) through pores
buffoon	stupid person; clown
elaborate	work out carefully; add more detail or information; ADJ.
gaunt	lean and angular; thin and bony; emaciated; barren
comity	courtesy; civility; Ex. comity of nations
terminology	terms used in a science or art; study of nomenclature
satellite	small body revolving around a larger one
mode	prevailing style; current fashion; manner; way of doing something; Ex. in the latest mode; Ex. simple mode of life
flip	send (something) spinning, often into the air, by striking with a light quick blow; turn over; Ex. flip over
demeanor	behavior; bearing
jaunt	trip; short journey
appraise	estimate value of; N. appraisal
relish	enjoy; savor; N: enjoyment; zest
inopportune	untimely; inappropriate or ill-timed; poorly chosen
granulate	form into grains or granules; N. granule: grain or particle
limn	draw; outline; describe; CF. line ?
gratis	free; without charge; ADJ.
cherubic	angelic; innocent-looking; N. cherub; CF. seraph: winged angel of the highest order
brawl	noisy quarrel
seminal	related to seed or semen; germinal; creative; providing a basis for further development; influencing future developments; Ex. seminal research in a new field
ferment	agitation; commotion(noisy and excited activity); unrest (of a political kind); V. produce by fermentation; undergo fermentation; cause (a state of trouble)
spasmodic	fitful; periodic; of or like a spasm; N. spasm: sudden involuntary muscular contraction; sudden burst of energy or emotion
boorish	rude; insensitive
underhand(underhanded)	done slyly and secretly (being dishonest)
grunt	utter a deep guttural sound (as a pig does); N.
corpuscle	red or white cell in the blood
vignette	small drawing placed at the beginning or end of a chapter; picture; short literary sketch; short written description of a character or scene
carcinogenic	causing cancer; N. carcinogen
firebrand	piece of burning wood; hothead; troublemaker; person who stirs up trouble
screech	unpleasant high sharp sound; shriek; V.
discernible	distinguishable; perceivable; Ex. discernible improvement
coiffure	hairstyle
layman	man who is not a cleric; man who is nonprofessional
compendium	brief, comprehensive summary; ADJ. compendious
toady	servile flatterer; yes man; sycophant; V: be a toady to; fawn
clamor	loud continous noise; continuous demand or complaint made by a large number of people; V: make a clamor; express (a demand) continually and loudly; ADJ. clamorous
sheer	pure; thin and transparent; very steep
genus	division of animals or plants, below a family and above a species
fabricate	 build; lie; make up (a story) in order to deceive; Ex. fabricate the whole story; CF. fabric: underlying structure; Ex. fabric of society
topography	physical features of a region (such as the shape and height); CF. topo-: place
querulous	given to complaining; complaining; fretful; whining
amiable	agreeable; lovable; warmly friendly
regent	a person who governs in place of a ruler who is ill, absent, or still a child; ADJ. Ex. the Prince regent
apropos	with reference to; regarding; Ex. remarks apropos (of) the present situation; ADJ. ADV.
presentiment	premonition; foreboding; feeling something will happen; anticipatory fear
irreconcilable	impossible to reconcile; incompatible; not able to be resolved
pugilist	boxer; CF. pugilism: boxing
instigate	start; urge; provoke; incite; Ex. instigate a search/quarrel
bacchanalia	the ancient Roman festival in honor of Bacchus
incidence	rate of occurrence; particular occurrence; Ex. high incidence of infant mortality
commensurate	equal in extent; of the same size
resuscitate	revive; bring back to life or consciousness; Ex. resuscitate the drowned child
dummy	imitation of a real object used as a substitute; effigy
hinterlands	back country; inner part of a country; OP. foreland
scurrilous	abusive; obscene; indecent; Ex. scurrilous remark
reminiscence	recollection; V. reminisce: recollect the past
hindsight	understanding the nature of an event after it has actually happened
dyspeptic	suffering from indigestion; N. dyspepsia: indigestion; difficulty in digesting food
tension	stretching; condition of being stretched; mental strain; strained relationship between groups or people
missile	object to be thrown or projected
cameo	shell or jewel carved in relief; star's special appearance in a minor role in a film
stringent	(of rules) binding; rigid; marked by scarcity of money; Ex. stringent economic conditions
eclipse	darken; extinguish; outshine; surpass; cause an eclipse
sanction	approve; ratify; N: permission; penalty intended to enforce compliance
mealymouthed	indirect in speech (when something unpleasant must be said); hypocritical; evasive
torso	trunk of statue with head and limbs missing; human trunk
detain	keep waiting; prevent from leaving or going; N. detention
ultimatum	last demand; last warning; last statement of conditions that must be met; Ex. They have ignored our ultimatum.
volley	simultaneous discharge of a number of shots; V.
abhor	detest; hate
injurious	harmful; causing injury
monotheism	belief in one God
canard	unfounded false rumor; exaggerated false report
lumen	unit of light energy (one candle's worth)
stoke	stir up a fire or furnace; feed plentifully
synchronous	similarly timed; simultaneous with; occurring at the same time; V. synchronize
intimidate	frighten; N. intimidation
quisling	traitor who aids invaders; CF. Vidkun Quisling
kindle	start a fire; ignite; inspire; arouse
dupe	someone easily fooled or deceived; V: deceive
incendiary	arsonist; ADJ: causing fire; of arson; Ex. incendiary bomb
choir	group of people who sing together (esp. during religious services); place for choir
nihilist	one who considers traditional beliefs to be groundless and existence meaningless; absolute skeptic; revolutionary terrorist; CF. nihilism: belief that nothing has meaning or value; belief that destruction of existing political or social institutio
miscreant	wretch; wrongdoer; villain; Ex. kindness to the miscreant; CF. believe
agitate	stir up; disturb
doldrums	blues; listlessness(lack of spirit or energy); slack(inactive) period; period of stagnation; ocean area near the equator where ships cannot move because there is no wind; Ex. in the doldrums
embryonic	undeveloped; rudimentary; N. embryo: organism in the early stage of development
humility	humbleness of spirit
abstain	refrain; withhold from participation; intentionally not use one's vote;
provincial	pertaining to a province; limited in outlook; narrow; unsophisticated
fodder	coarse food for cattle, horses, etc.; feed for livestock; CF. food
tract	propaganda pamphlet (esp. by a religious or political group); expanse of land; region of indefinite size; system of related organs; Ex. digestive tract
eddy	swirling current of water, air, etc.; V.
fashion	give shape to; make; Ex. fashion the pot out of clay
disinter	dig up; unearth; OP. inter
purported	alleged; claimed; reputed or rumored; Ex. purported Satanists
accommodate	oblige or help someone; adjust or bring into harmony; adapt; make enough space for; ADJ. accommodative; CF. accomodating: helpful and obliging
genuflect	bend the knee as in worship
stagnant	(of water) not flowing (often bad-smelling); motionless; stale; not developing; inactive; dull; Ex. stagnant industrial output
profane	violate; desecrate (something holy); treat unworthily; be profane for; ADJ: secular; nonreligious; irreverent for holy things
regiment	military unit; V: subject to strict order; Ex. regimented society
lopsided	heavier or larger on one side than the other; Ex. lopsided way of walking
disapprobation	disapproval; condemnation
factitious	artificial; produced artificially; sham; false; Ex. factitious tears
gamut	entire range
rapture	great joy and delight; ecstasy; ADJ. rapturous
flaunt	display ostentatiously; Ex. ``Honey, if you've got it, flaunt it !''
ubiquitous	 being everywhere; omnipresent; N. ubiquity
onerous	burdensome
temerity	boldness; nerve; rashness; Ex. temerity to ask for a pay increase after only three day's work
graze	(of an animal) feed on growing grass; cause (an animal) to feed on grass; scrape (esp. the skin) or touch lightly in passing; brush; Ex. We can't graze the cattle till summer; N: surface wound
shunt	move (a railway train) from one track to another; turn aside; divert; sidetrack; Ex. shunt traffic around an accident; N.
imbibe	drink in
misogynist	hater of woman; CF. misogyny
ascendancy	controlling influence; position of controlling influence; CF. in the ascendant
enervate	weaken; take away energy from
apogee	highest point; the point farthest from the earth; OP. perigee
enhance	increase; make greater (as in value, reputation, or usefulness); improve
complaisant	trying to please; obliging; willing to please others
memoir	memoirs; autobiography; biography
carat(karat)	unit of weight for precious stones; measure of the purity of gold
postulate	self-evident truth; something assumed without proof; V: assume the truth of (as a basis of an argument)
redundant	superfluous; more than is necessary; verbose; excessively wordy; repetitious
reconnaissance	survey of enemy by soldiers; reconnoitering; V. reconnoiter: make a preliminary inspection of (esp. to gather military information)
catastrophe	calamity ; disaster
static	having no motion; unchanging; lacking development; N. stasis: stable state
quay	dock; wharf; pier; landing place (for boats)
righteous	morally upright; just
conformist	person who uncritically conforms to the customs of a group; OP. nonconformist: one who does not conform to accepted beliefs of norms
construe	explain; interpret; Ex. construe her silence as meaning that she agreed; CF. misconstrue
obloquy	slander; disgrace; infamy
terminus	last stop of railroad; end
notch	V-shaped cut in a surface; V.
rife	(of something bad) widespread; abundant; current
inveigle	deceive; lead astray by deception; wheedle(cajole); Ex. inveigle her into joining the club; CF. interest dishonestly
providence	quality of being provident; divine care; god's care; Providence: god; Ex. It seemed like providence that the doctor happened to be there; ADJ. providential: of divine providence; fortunate
hover	hang about; (of birds or aircraft) stay in the air in one place; (of people) wait nearby; stay around one place; waver; be in an uncertain state
archaic	antiquated; no longer used; belonging to the past; N.
placid	peaceful; calm; Ex. placid child/lake
extraneous	not essential; irrelevant; superfluous; external; coming from the outside; Ex. extraneous details/noise/to the subject
couple	join; unite; OP. uncouple
lethargic	drowsy; dull; N. lethargy: state of sluggishness and inactivity
lank	long and thin; Ex. Lank, gaunt, Abraham Lincoln
carillon	a set of bells (often in a tower) capable of being played
psychiatrist	doctor who treats mental diseases
cartographer	map-maker
forerunner	predecessor; one that comes before and indicates the approach of another
arrhythmic	lacking rhythm or regularity; N. arrhythmia
espionage	spying
inquisitive	eager for knowledge; unduly curious
objective	not influenced by emotions; fair; N: goal; aim
vivisection	act of dissecting living animals
withdrawn	introverted; retiring; remote remote/distant in manner; aloof
machinations	evil schemes or plots; schemes or plots to achieve an evil end; V. machinate
innovation	change; something newly introduced; introduction of something new; V. innovate: begin or introduce (something new); be creative; ADJ. innovative
creep	move with body close to the ground; move stealthily or slowly; N.
cynosure	object of general attention; person or thing that is a center of attention; CF. Ursa Minor
flora	plants of a region or era
exhilarating	invigorating and refreshing; cheering; V. exhilarate: make cheerful and excited; Ex. exhilarated by the ride in the sports car
conviction	judgment that someone is guilty of a crime; strongly held belief
redress	remedy; compensation; Ex. seek redress for the damage to your car; V: put right; remedy or rectify (a wrong); make amends for
orientation	act of finding oneself in society; orienting
billowing	swelling out in waves; surging
rebuff	reject bluntly; snub; beat back; Ex. She rebuffed his invitation; N.
bereft	deprived of (something valuable); lacking
atavism	resemblance to remote ancestors rather than to parents; reversion to an earlier type; throwback; ADJ. atavistic
avuncular	of or like an uncle
scoff	laugh (at); mock; ridicule; Ex. scoff at their threats
pauper	very poor person
reciprocal	mutual; given and received in return; exchangeable; interacting; Ex. reciprocal trade agreement
unimpeachable	that cannot be impeached; beyond doubt or question; blameless and exemplary
oath	solemn promise; blasphemous use of sacred words to express strong feelings; swear-word; Ex. ``For Christ's sake''
defame	harm someone's reputation; malign; speak evil of; slander; N. defamation; ADJ. defamatory
prosaic	lacking in imagination; dull and unimaginative; matter-of-fact(concerned with facts, not imagination or feelings); factual; CF. prose
speechless	unable for the moment to speak (because of strong feeling); Ex. speechless with anger
amenities	convenient features that helps to make life pleasant; social courtesies
document	provide written evidence (for a claim); record with documents; N.
arch-	chief; first; Ex. archbishop
ferocious	fierce; violent; N. ferocity
perigee	point of moon's orbit when it is nearest the earth; CF. apogee
insubstantial	lacking substance; insignificant; frail; immaterial
poise	good judgment with composure; balance; V: place in a carefully balanced position
pedestrian	ordinary; dull; unimaginative(lacking in imagination); going on foot; Ex. pedestrian prose; N.
abortive	unsuccessful; fruitless
incrustation	hard coating or crust; V. incrust: encrust; cover with a crust
pedantic	bookish; showing off learning; marked by an excessive ostentatious concern for book learning; N. pedantry
confide	tell in confidence (to a person one trusts); be confident about
limp	walk lamely; ADJ: lacking firmness; weak
entourage	group of attendants; retinue; CF. surround
levitate	rise and float in the air (especially by magical means); CF. light
correlation	mutual relationship
diligence	steadiness of effort; persistent hard work
fickle	changeable (in affections or friendship); faithless
handsome	large in quantity; generous; Ex. handsome reward
opportune	timely; well-chosen
loom	appear or take shape (usually in an enlarged, indistinct, or distorted form); Ex. The shadow of the gallows loomed threateningly. N: apparatus for making thread into cloth
doddering	shaky; infirm from old age; V. dodder
incessant	uninterrupted; unceasing
protuberance	protrusion; swelling; bulge
totem	animal, plant, or natural object serving as a symbol of a clan or family; representation of this; Ex. totem pole
pending	not yet decided or settled; impending; Ex. pending decision; PREP. while awaiting; until; Ex. delay the decision pending his return
mitigate	appease; moderate; make or become less in force or intensity
quarry	dig into (to get stone); N: mine;
stampede	sudden frenzied rush (of panic-stricken animals or people); V: participate in or cause stampede; Ex. stampede before the price rises
pontifical	pertaining to a bishop or pope; pompous or pretentious; CF. pontiff: pope; bishop
militia	army composed of ordinary citizens rather than professional soldiers
polity	(particular form of) political organization; form of government of nation or state; Ex. student polity
odyssey	long, eventful, adventurous journey
fallow	(of land) plowed but not sowed (to improve the quality); uncultivated
unearthly	not earthly; supernatural; weird; ghostly
wax	increase gradually (as the moon); grow
proscenium	part of stage in front of curtain; front arch of a stage
equine	resembling a horse; Ex. equine face
bouillon	clear beef (or meat) soup
eugenic	pertaining to the improvement of race; N. eugenics: study of hereditary improvement of the human race
demotic	of or pertaining to the people
rational	(of a person) having reason; (of ideas) based on reason; logical
assuage	mak less severe; ease or lessen (pain); satisfy (hunger); soothe (anger)
juridical	of the law and its administration; CF. judicial: of courts of law; CF. judiciary
mobile	movable; not fixed; N. mobility
mote	small speck (esp. of dust)
sanctimonious	displaying ostentatious or hypocritical devoutness; N. sanctimony: hypocritical piety
hermetic	concerning alchemy or magic; obscure and mysterious; occult
ingrained	deeply established; firmly rooted; Ex. ingrained dirt/prejudice
centigrade	denoting a widely used temperature scale (basically same as Celsius)
portly	stout; corpulent
weary	tired after long work; V.
bump	hit or knock against with force; N.
parley	conference (between opponents); CF. speak
cajole	persuade by praise or false promise; coax; wheedle
interpolate	insert between
far-fetched	too improbable to be believed; implausible; Ex. far-fetched story
advocate	speak in favor of; support (an idea or plan); urge; plead for
alchemy	medieval chemistry
etymology	study of word parts; study of the origins of words
officious	meddlesome; excessively pushy in offering one's services; overly eager in offering unwanted services or advices; Ex. officious bellboy
artifacts	object made by human beings, either hand-made or mass-produced
stratified	divided into classes; arranged into strata; V. stratify
parody	humorous imitation; spoof; takeoff; travesty; V.
desiccate	dry up
leniency	mildness; permissiveness; ADJ. lenient: not severe in judgment or punishment
uproar	noisy confusion
tumid	(of a part of the body) swollen; distended; bombastic; pompous
fugitive	fleeting or transitory; lasting only a short time; roving(wandering); running away or fleeing as from the law; N: one who flees; Ex. fugitives at large
conceit	vanity or self-love; too high opinion of one's own value; extravagant metaphor (in poetry)
malignant	tending to cause death; highly injurious; aggressively malevolent; Ex. malignant tumor
insensible	unconscious; unresponsive; insensitive; unaware; imperceptible; Ex. insensible of his danger/to pain; Ex. insensible change; CF. not the opposite of sensible
haggle	argue about prices (in an attempt to bargain)
insurgent	rebellious; N.
din	continued loud noise; V: make a din; instill by wearying repetition
vacuous	empty; lacking in ideas; inane; stupid; Ex. vacuous expression; N. vacuity
tend	have a tendency; take care of; minister; serve at; apply one's attention; attend
excerpt	selected passage (written or musical) taken from a longer work; V.
misogamy	hatred of marriage
conscript	draftee; person forced into military service; V.
drone	talk dully; buzz or murmur like a bee; N.
brazen	insolent; without shame; bold; Ex. brazen lie; V: face with bold self-assurance or with unshamed confidence
protrude	stick out; jut; project; Ex. protruding teeth
vestige	trace; remains; Ex. vestiges of some ancient religion
predecessor	former occupant of a post
phobia	morbid fear
oust	expel; drive out; force out; N. ouster: ousting
progenitor	ancestor
tickle	touch (the body) lightly so as to cause laughter; please
apolitical	having an aversion or lack of concern for political affairs
indices	signs; indications; Ex. indices of a student's potential; CF. index: something that reveals or indicates; sign; Ex. cost-of-living index
squelch	produce a splashing sound (when stepping through mud); crush; squash;
deluge	flood; rush; V.
beseech	beg; plead with
inquisitor	questioner (especially harsh); investigator; person making an inquisition
credence	belief
detonation	explosion
marked	noticeable; targeted for vengeance or attack; Ex. marked improvement/man
surly	bad-tempered; rude; cross
tenacious	holding fast (as to a belief); persistent
jocular	said or done in jest or playfully; marked by joking
lachrymose	producing tears; tearful
inroad	hostile invasion; advance that lessens the quantity or difficulty of something; Ex. The long illness made serious inroads on his savings; CF. raid
jocose	given to(having a tendency of) joking
amphibian	able to live both on land and in water; N.
battalion	army unit made up of four or more companies
anneal	reduce brittleness and improve toughness by heating and cooling (metal or glass)
inhibit	restrain; prohibit; retard or prevent; N. inhibition
earmark	 set aside (money or time) for a particular purpose
invert	turn upside down or inside out; reverse the position or condition of
prosper	become successful (esp. financially); thrive; grow well; Ex. children prospering under his care
catalyst	agent which brings about a chemical change while it remains unaffected and unchanged; CF. catalysis
peremptory	demanding and leaving no choice; imperative; Ex. peremptory decree/knock
schematic	of a schema or scheme; relating to an outline or diagram; using a system of symbols; N. schema: diagrammatic representation; outline
inconsequential	insignificant; unimportant
taut	tight; strained; tense; ready; OP. slack
thwart	block or hinder; baffle; frustrate
painstaking	taking pains; showing hard work; taking great care; very careful and through
impious	irreverent
capillary	having a very fine bore; resembling a hair; fine and slender; Ex. capillary attraction; N: very fine hairlike tube; CF. capillarity
tint	slight degree of color; V: give a tint to
disconsolate	hopelessly sad (at the loss of something)
spectral	ghostly; N. specter: spectre; ghost; phantom
causal	implying a cause-and-effect relationship; N. causality
cosmic	pertaining to the universe; vast
consolidation	unification; process of becoming firmer or stronger; V. consolidate: merge; strengthen
composure	mental calmness
idiosyncrasy	individual trait usually odd in nature; behavioral peculiarity; eccentricity; attitude, behavior, or opinion peculiar to a person; anything highly individual or eccentric; ADJ. idiosyncratic
leeway	room to move; margin; latitude; Ex. leeway for the deadline
platonic	purely spiritual; theoretical; without sensual desire
convoke	call together; Ex. convoke Parliament; N. convocation
kernel	central or vital part; core; whole seed (as of corn)
unsullied	untarnished; CF. sully
irate	angry; CF. ire: anger; wrath
irascible	irritable; easily angered
dribble	flow or fall in drops; let saliva flow out slowly from the mouth; move a ball; N.
token	outward sign; Ex. a token of our gratitude
epithet	word or phrase characteristically used to describe a person or thing; descriptive phrase to characterize a person (often contemptous)
diffidence	shyness; lack of self-confidence; timidity; ADJ. diffident
existential	pertaining to existence; pertaining to the philosophy of existentialism
court	attempt to gain; seek; woo; risk; behave so as to invite; attempt to gain the favor of by attention; Ex. court disaster
swerve	deviate; turn aside sharply from a straight course; Ex. swerve from the principle; Ex. The car swerved to the right.
ribald	marked by vulgar lewd humor; wanton; profane; N. ribaldry: ribald language or joke
cardinal	chief; most important; N: priest; cardinal number: number that shows quantity rather thatn order
inimitable	matchless; not able to be imitated
thermal	pertaining to heat; producing heat; warm; Ex. thermal bath; N: rising current of warm air
fresco	painting on wet plaster (usually fresh)
mammoth	gigantic; enormous
nostrum	questionable medicine; quack medicine; CF. our (remedy)
veer	change in direction; swerve
litigation	lawsuit; N. litigant: one party in a lawsuit; V. litigate
dismantle	take apart; disassemble
bolster	support; reinforce
bugaboo	bugbear; object of baseless terror
nurture	nourish; feed; educate; rear; care for while it is growing or developing; foster; cultivate; N: something that nourishes; rearing
conducive	helpful; contributive; V. conduce; Ex. conduce to/towards
swarm	large group of insects moving in a mass; crowd of people or animals; V: move in a crowd or mass
solvent	substance that dissolves another; ADJ: capable of dissolving another substance
mausoleum	monumental tomb; large stately tomb; CF. Mausolos
germane	pertinent; bearing upon(having connection with) the case at hand; appropriate
nepotism	favoritism (to a relative); CF. nephew
demographic	related to population balance; N. demography: statistical study of human population
desecrate	profane; violate the sanctity of
trenchant	cutting; incisive; keen
scrimmage	disorderly fight between two or more people
facile	easily accomplished; ready or fluent; superficial; not deep; Ex. facile solution to a complex problem; Ex. facile speaker; N. facility: ability to do something easily and well; ease in doing resulting from skill or aptitude; something that facil
vehement	forceful; intensely emotional; with marked vigor; strong; N. vehemence
endemic	prevailing among a specific group of people or in a specific area or country; peculiar to a particular region or people; CF. pandemic
statutory	created by statute or legislative action; regulated by statute; Ex. statutory age limit
cumulative	growing by addition; accumulative
indecisive	marked by indecision; inconclusive; Ex. indecisive battle
wizardry	sorcery; magic
febrile	feverish
tiller	handle used to move boat's rudder (to steer)
perennial	something long-lasting; perennial plant; ADJ: lasting through the year or many years; lasting for a long time; enduring
pellucid	transparent; limpid(crystal clear); clear in meaning; easy to understand
poignancy	quality of being deeply moving; keenness of emotion; ADJ. poignant: touching; deeply moving; (of sorrow, grief, etc.) painful; keenly distressing to the mind; Ex. poignant memory/anxiety; CF. prick
vise	vice; tool for holding work in place; clamping device
milieu	social environment; means of expression; Ex. feel out of one's milieu; Ex. His proper milieu is watercolor.
recidivism	habitual return to crime (even after being punished); N. recidivist
philatelist	stamp-collector; N. philately: stamp collecting
sever	separate; cut off (a part) from a whole; break up (a relationship); N. severance; CF. severance pay: extra pay given an employee upon leaving a position
fundamental	basic; primary; essential
conventional	ordinary; typical; not nuclear; Ex. conventional weapons
primogeniture	seniority by birth; state of being the first-born child; right of the eldest child (to inherit the entire property of one or both parents)
seminary	school for training future ministers; secondary school, especially for young women
perturb	disturb greatly
shade	slight difference in degree; nuance; degree of color; Ex. shades of meaning/grey
arrogance	pride; haughtiness; ADJ. arrogant: unpleasantly self-important (with a strong confidence in one's own importance and a lack of respect for other people)
susceptible	impressionable; easily influenced; sensitive; having little resistance as to a disease; likely to suffer; receptive to; capable of accepting; Ex. susceptible to persuasion/colds; Ex. The agreement is not susceptible of alteration; N. susceptibility
ration	fixed portion; V: distribute as rations
prot\'eg\'e	person receiving protection and support from a patron
intimate	hint; suggest; imply; ADJ: marked by close relationship; familiar; private; personal; Ex. intimate knowledge/thoughts in the diary; N: close friend or confidant; CF. intimacy
nutrient	nourishing substance; ADJ: providing nourishment
squat	short and thick; stocky; Ex. ugly squat tower; V. N.
pugnacity	combativeness; disposition to fight; ADJ. pugnacious: (of people) belligerent; combative in nature
virile	manly; having masculine spirit or strength; full of strength
boisterous	violent; rough; noisy
subside	sink to a lower level; settle down; sink to the bottom (as a sediment); descend; grow quiet; become less; moderate; abate
snip	short quick cut with scissors; V: cut with scissors
appease	pacify or soothe; Ex. appease a crying baby; N. appeasement
blanch	bleach; whiten; make white or pale
effective	effectual; producing a strong response; striking; in operation; in effect; Ex. effective speech/photograph
equivocal	(of words or statements) ambiguous; intentionally misleading; (of behavior) questionable; OP. unequivocal
aseptic	preventing infection; having a cleansing effect
Bohemian	unconventional (in an artistic way)
academic	related to a school; not practical or directly useful
confound	confuse; puzzle
residue	remainder; balance
ambivalence	the state of having contradictory or conflicting emotional attitudes or opinions
helm	steering wheel of a ship; position of control
unravel	disentangle; solve
accessible	easy to approach; obtainable
centripetal	tending toward the center
obsolete	outmoded; no longer used
talisman	charm; object believed to give supernatural powers to or protect its bearer
filch	steal (things of small value)
faculty	mental or bodily powers; teaching staff
convivial	pleasantly merry; festive; joyous; gay; characterized by joviality; jovial
recalcitrant	disobedient or resisting authority even after being punished; obstinately stubborn; determined to resist authority; unruly; Ex. recalcitrant child
epigram	witty thought or saying, usually short
debacle	sudden disastrous downfall or defeat; complete disaster
odium	detestation; quality of being odious; hatefulness; disrepute (resulting from hateful conduct)
glamor	compelling charm; ADJ. glamorous
repulse	reject with rudeness or coldness (an offer or friendship); drive back (an enemy attack); CF. repulse $\neq$ cause repulsion
deflect	turn aside; turn away from a straight course
compulsive	resulting from compulsion
dishearten	discourage
myriad	very large number; ADJ. CF. ten thousand
misconduct	immoral behavior; bad management; V.
hallucination	delusion; false idea; false perception of objects with a compelling sense of their reality; objects so perceived; V. hallucinate; ADJ. hallucinatory
inebriated	habitually intoxicated; drunk; N. inebriety
annals	records arranged in yearly parts; history
decree	authoritative order; edict; judgment of a court of law; V: order or judge by decree
implication	something hinted at or suggested; implying; implicating
complicity	participation; involvement (in a questionable act or a crime)
odds	chances; probability; disagreement; Ex. The odds are that it will rain. Ex. at odds with
enclave	territory enclosed within an alien land
alcove	nook; recess
referendum	direct vote by all the people
motility	ability to move spontaneously; ADJ. motile: moving spontaneously
prognosticate	predict (according to present indications)
concurrent	happening at the same time; in agreement
futile	useless; hopeless; ineffectual
dirge	funeral song; slow mournful piece of music (sung over a dead person)
bruise	injure without breaking the skin; N.
antagonism	hostility; active opposition; V. antagonize: cause to become an enemy; N. antagonist: person who is opposed to another; opponent; adversary; principal character in oppostion to the protagonist
usury	lending money at illegal high rates of interest
makeshift	temporary expedient or substitute (in the case of urgent need); Ex. makeshift shelter
mute	silent; without speech; not pronounced; unable to speak; N: one who is incapable of speech; V: soften the sound, color, shade of
apiary	a place where bees are kept
clemency	disposition to be lenient in deciding punishments; mildness as of the weather; ADJ. clement
perpetrate	commit an offense; do (something wrong)
implicit	understood but not stated; implied; unquestioning and complete; Ex. implicit trust
acquiesce	assent; agree passively; comply without protest
fraught	filled (with something unpleasant); full; Ex. fraught with danger and difficulties; CF. freight
fertile	producing many young, fruits, or seeds; (of land) producing good crops; V. fertilize
garbled	mixed up; jumbled; distorted; V. garble: mix up or distort (a message) to such an extent as to make misleading or unintelligible
glow	shine brightly without a flame (as of eyes or metals); show redness and heat (in the face) after hard work or because of strong feelings; N: light produced by a heated body; brilliance of a color
metropolis	large city
recital	act of reciting publicly; detailed account; performance of music or dance (by a solo performer)
evenhanded	impartial; fair
defunct	dead; no longer in use or existence
vivacious	lively or animated; sprightl sprightly/lively
sentinel	sentry; lookout
ulterior	intentionally hidden; beyond what is evident; situated beyond; unstated and often questionable; Ex. ulterior motive
bemused	confused; lost in thought; preoccupied
outcast	one that has been excluded from a society; ADJ.
slipshod	slovenly; careless; sloppy; untidy; shabby; Ex. slipshod work
mulct	defraud a person of something; swindle; Ex. mulct the boy of his legacy
pulpit	raised platform used in preaching (in a church)
obnoxious	offensive; disagreeable; Ex. obnoxious smell
pathetic	causing sadness, compassion, pity; touching
poultice	soothing application applied to sore and inflamed portions of the body
catholic	(of likings and interests) universal; general; broad; including many different parts; wide-ranging liberal; Ex. catholic opinions/tastes
nutritious	providing nourishment
foment	stir up; incite; instigate; promote the growth of (something evil or unpleasant)
rolling	(of land) rising and falling in long gentle slopes; happening continuously by stages; Ex. rolling devolution of power to local governments
lot	object used in making a determination at random; fate; piece of land
bate	let down; lessen the force of; moderate; restrain; Ex. with bated breath; CF. abate
embark	commence; go on board a boat; begin a journey
irreparable	not able to be corrected or repaired; impossible to repair
ruthless	pitiless; merciless; cruel
endear	make beloved; Ex. endear her to everyone; ADJ. dear: loved; cherished; high-priced
blatant	extremely (offensively) obvious; loudly offensive; Ex. blatant lie; N. blatancy
primate	group of mammals including humans
acoustics	science of sound; quality that makes a room easy or hard to hear in
precursor	forerunner; predecessor
celibate	abstaining from sexual intercourse; unmarried; N. celibacy
reduce	diminish; bring to a weaker or more difficult condition; demote; lower in rank; separate into components by analysis; Ex. reduced to the ranks; Ex. reduce the house to rubble; N. reduction
jingoist	extremely aggressive and militant patriot; warlike chauvinist; N. jingoism: extreme nationalism
caprice	whim; sudden change of mind without any real cause
apprehensive	fearful; discerning
zealot	one who is zealous; fanatic; person who shows excessive zeal
context	writings preceding and following the passage quoted; circumstance in which an event occurs
bromide	platitude; chemical compound used to calm excitement
relegate	put into a lower or worse place; banish to an inferior position; delegate; assign; Ex. relegate the old furniture to the children's room; Ex. relegated to the second division
intellect	higher mental powers; person of great intellectual ability
carrion	rotting flesh of a dead body; CF. vulture
spry	(esp. of older people) vigorously active; nimble
polyglot	speaking several languages; multilingual; Ex. polyglot person/society; N.
materialism	preoccupation with physical comforts and things; excessive regard for worldly concerns (rather than spiritual matters)
venom	poison (of an animal); hatred; Ex. remarks full of venom; ADJ. venomous
occlude	shut; close; obstruct; Ex. A blood clot occluded an artery.
sheaf	bundle of stalks of grain; any bundle of things tied together
paraphrase	restate a passage in one's own words while retaining thought of author; N: restatement of a text in other words
fulsome	disgustingly excessive; offensively flattering; Ex. fulsome praise/expressions of admire
progeny	children; offspring; descendants
sentimental	swayed by sentiment; appealing to the sentiments
putative	supposed; reputed; generally regarded as such; Ex. putative father of the child
self-indulgence	excessive indulgence of one's own desire
malign	speak evil of; bad-mouth(criticize spitefully); defame; ADJ: harmful; Ex. malign influence
apocryphal	(of a story) widely believed but untrue
mortar	vessel in which substances are crushed with a pestle
peddle	travel about selling (wares); CF. foot
divine	perceive intuitively (by or as if by magic); foresee the future; foretell; dowse; ADJ. N. divination
humdrum	dull; monotonous
antecedents	preceding events that influence what comes later; ancestors or early background
demure	(of a woman or child) grave; quiet and serious; coy; pretending to be demure
palate	roof of the mouth; sense of the taste
forthcoming	happening in the near future; ready; willing to help; Ex. No answer was forthcoming.
circlet	small ring; band of gold, silver, jewel, etc. (worn on the head, arms, or neck as decoration)
drip	fall or let fall in drops; shed drops; N: action or sound of falling in drops; liquid that falls in drops
fruitful	producing results; profitable; prolific; producing in abundance
brood	sit on in order to hatch; think deeply or worry anxiously; N: the young of certain animals; group of young birds hatched at one time
pendulous	hanging; suspended
sunder	separate; part; CF. asunder
anathema	solemn curse; someone or something regarded as a curse; V. anathematize
consort	associate with; keep company; N: husband or wife (or a ruler)
reactionary	strongly opposed to social or political change; opposing progress; politically ultraconservative; N. OP. radical
infinitesimal	very small
pomposity	self-important behavior; acting like a stuffed shirt(pompous person); ADJ. pompous: self-important
nurse	suckle; take care of (as a nurse); bear in mind; Ex. nursing mother; Ex. nurse a hope/grudge against someone
dilute	make (a liquid) less concentrated; reduce in strength; Ex. dilute the influence of the president
negligible	so small, trifling, or unimportant as to be easily disregarded
necromancy	black magic; sorcery; dealings with the dead; art that professes to communicate with the spirits of the dead so as to predict the future; CF. necromancer; CF. necro+divination; CF. necro-: death; Ex. necropolis
championship	position of champion; defense or support; competition held to determine a champion
advocacy	support; active pleading on behalf of someone or something
apiculture	bee-keeping
primordial	existing at the beginning (of time); rudimentary
gustatory	affecting or relating to the sense of taste
prevalent	widespread; generally accepted
inclined	tending or leaning toward; bent; V. incline: slant; dispose; be disposed; tend
cull	pick out from others (to kill the weakest members); reject; select; collect (information); N.
exclaim	cry out suddenly; N. exclamation; ADJ. exclamatory
ethnology	study of humankind; study of the different races of human beings; CF. anthropology
requisite	necessary requirement; something required; ADJ: required; necessary
imperial	like an emperor; related to an empire; CF. imperialism
parameter	limit; independent variable; Ex. parameters of the problem; Ex. within the parameters of the budget
multifarious	varied; greatly diversified; Ex. multifarious activities
gratuity	n. money given to sb who has done one a service; tip ;
reverent	respectful; worshipful; V. revere: regard with reverence; N. reverence: profound respect
osseous	made of bone; bony
interloper	intruder; one who interferes
vivid	(of light or color) bright and distinct; evoking lifelike mental images; Ex. vivid red hair/description
reinstate	restore to a previous condition or position
imprudent	lacking caution; not prudent; injudicious
quiescent	dormant; temporarily inactive; at rest; N. quiescence
quail	cower; shrink back in fear; lose heart
stellar	pertaining to the stars; of a star performer; outstanding; Ex. stellar attraction of the entire performance
equanimity	calmness of temperament; composure
quicksilver	mercury
pucker	gather into wrinkles or folds; N: wrinkle or fold
rankle	irritate; fester; annoy
relent	become less severe; give in(surrender); ADJ. relentless: unyielding; continuously severe
dexterous	skillful; skill in using hands or mind; N. dexterity
replenish	fill up again
exasperate	vex; annoy or make angry (by testing the patience)
pseudonym	pen name; fictitious name assumed by an author; ADJ. pseudonymous
noxious	harmful; CF. obnoxious
potentate	monarch; sovereign
harping	tiresome dwelling on a subject; V. harp: dwell on(think or speak a lot about) tediously
rostrum	raised platform for speech-making; pulpit
waive	give up temporarily; yield; N. waiver: waiving a right or claim; document that waives a right or claim
laborious	demanding much work or care; tedious
archives	public records; place where public records are kept
abyss	enormous chasm; vast bottomless pit
shoddy	made of inferior material; sham; not genuine; inferior; dishonest; Ex. shoddy goods/trick
vex	annoy; distress
gruesome	grisly; horrible
belie	contradict; give a false impression; disguise; Ex. The poor sales belied our high hopes; Ex. Her smile belies her true feeling of displeasure.
conduit	aqueduct; passageway for fluids
dialectical	relating to the art of debate; mutual or reciprocal; Ex. dialectical situation; N. dialectic: art of arriving at the truth by the exchange of logical arguments
monograph	scholarly article
manifesto	public declaration of principles; statement of policy
champion	support militantly; fight for; N: person who fights for or supports strongly (a principle, movement, person, etc.)
correlate	either of the correlated things; V.
ancestry	family descent; ADJ. ancestral
tome	large volume; book
travail	strenuous work; toil; painful labor; labor of childbirth
insubordination	disobedience; rebelliousness; ADJ. insubordinate
rout	put to rout; stampede; drive out; N: complete defeat and disorderly retreat
persist	continue in existence; last; continue in a course of action in spite of opposition; Ex. persist in/with something; ADJ. persistent
psychosis	mental disorder; ADJ. N. psychotic
mediate	settle a dispute through the services of an outsider; act as an intermediary; produce by mediating; Ex. mediate a cease-fire
heyday	time of greatest success or power; prime
verbose	wordy; N. verbosity
averse	reluctant; disinclined; not liking or opposed; Ex. averse to cats/doing the house work
blight	plant disease; V: infect with blight; ruin; destroy
foray	raid; sudden raid or military advance; V.
adjoin	be next to
plaintive	expressing sorrow; mournful; Ex. plaintive song
meager	scanty; inadequate
caulk(calk)	make watertight (by blocking up cracks as in a ship)
earthly	of this earth; terrestrial; worldly; not divine; possible; Ex. no earthly reason
misconstrue	interpret incorrectly; misinterpret; misjudge
puissant	powerful; strong; potent; N. puissance: power
dolt	slow-thinking stupid person; CF. dull
pine	long for; yearn; languish from longing or grief; decline
inalienable	not to be taken away; nontransferable; Ex. inalienable rights
ignoble	unworthy; not noble; dishonorable; Ex. ignoble deed
declivity	downward slope
panache	flair; manner of doing things without any difficulty (causing admiration); flamboyance; bunch of feathers (on a helmet); Ex. with great panache;
adore	love deeply and respect highly
migrant	changing its habitat; wandering; Ex. migrant birds/workers; N: one that migrates
rotunda	circular building or hall covered with a dome
demagogue	person who appeals to people's prejudice; false leader of people; CF. demagoguery
concord	harmony; accord
feint	trick; shift; sham blow; feigned attack to draw away defensive action; V.
corrosive	eating away by chemicals or disease; (of language) fierce
confine	shut in an enclosed space; restrict; keep within limits; N. confinement
reprieve	postponement or cancelation of a punishment; temporary stay; V: postpone or cancel the punishment of
lethal	deadly
perpetuate	make perpetual; make something last for a long time; preserve from extinction; N. perpetuity
quandary	dilemma; state of uncertainty; Ex. She is in a quandary about whether to go.
indict	charge; N. indictment
capacious	spacious
clown	act stupidly; play the fool; N.
pinch	squeeze between the thumb and a finger, or other edges; Ex. I had to pinch myself to make sure I wasn't dreaming. N: amount that can be held between the thumb and a finger
venturesome	(of a person) bold; adventurous; daring; (of an action) risky
captious	faultfinding; too critical
scowl	frown angrily; N: angry frown
sublime	causing deep feelings of wonder, joy, respect, etc.; exalted; noble and uplifting; utter
metrical	metric; written in the form of poetry; Ex. metrical translation of Homer
thresh	beat (cereal plants) with a machine or flail to separate the grains from the straw
clangor	loud resounding noise; sound of repeated clanging
tensile	capable of being stretched; of tension; Ex. tensile rubber
coda	concluding section of a musical or literary composition
sententious	pithy; terse; concise; aphoristic
certitude	certainty
molecule	the smallest particle (one or more atoms) of a substance that has all the properties of that substance
cremate	incinerate (a corpse); N. crematory, crematorium
muse	ponder at length; N: source of inspiration (esp. of a poet)
douse	plunge into water or liquid; dip; immerse; drench; wet throughly; extinguish; throw water over; dowse
lewd	lustful
lectern	reading desk or stand for a public speaker
supercilious	haughty; arrogant; condescending; patronizing; CF. eyebrow, cilium
oaf	 stupid awkward person; CF. elf
crossbreed	hybridize; N: hybrid; CF. interbreed; CF. inbreed
controvert	oppose with arguments; attempt to refute; contradict; ADJ. controversial; N. controversy
vulgar	of the common people; deficient in refinement; not refined; coarse; Ex. vulgar display of wealth; N. vulgarism: vulgarity; crudely indecent word; CF. vulgarian: vulgar person; boor; lout
respiration	breathing; exhalation; ADJ. respiratory
amble	walking at an easy unhurried pace; V: walk slowly and aimlessly
provenance	place of origin; origin or source of something; Ex. Gunpowder is of Chinese provenance; CF. come
tarry	linger; delay in starting or going; dawdle
endorse	approve; support; write one's signature on the back of; N. endorsement; CF. dorsal
matriarch	woman who rules a family or larger social group
gradation	series of gradual stages; degree in such a progression
oscillate	vibrate pendulumlike; waver
forbearance	patience; forgiveness; V. forbear: refrain from (in a generous and forgiving way); be patient; Ex. forbear to send him to prison
luxuriate	take pleasure in great comfort
intangible	not able to be perceived by touch; vague
nonentity	person of no importance; nonexistence
abridge	condense or shorten
assiduous	diligent
quell	suppress; put an end to; put down forcibly; extinguish; quiet; Ex. ``Army Quells Rebellion'' in newspaper; CF. kill
insolvent	bankrupt; lacking money to pay; N. insolvency
beholden	obligated; indebted; owing thanks; obliged or indebted from gratitude
improvident	thriftless; not providing for the future
fracas	brawl(noisy quarrel or fight) in which a number of people take part; melee
unfrock	defrock; strip a priest or minister of church authority
penetrate	enter into; pierce; permeate; see through; grasp the inner significance of; understand
mischief	behavior (of children) causing trouble with no serious harm; damage; harm; Ex. mischief to the crops; ADJ. mischievous: causing mischief; playfully troublesome
retract	withdraw; take back; draw back; Ex. retract a statement/an offer/claws; N. retraction; CF. retractile
abase	lower; degrade; humiliate; make humble; make (oneself) lose self-respect
infidel	unbeliever (with respect to a particular religion)
posture	assume an affected pose; act artificially; N: pose; attitude
sanguinary	bloody; with much bloodshed
asperity	sharpness; roughness; severity (of temper or weather); Ex. asperities of a Russian winter
homespun	domestic; made at home; spun or woven at home; simple and ordinary; Ex. homespun philosophy
litany	supplicatory prayer; prayer in which the priest calls out and the people replies in the same words
inept	unsuited; inappropriate; lacking skill; incompetent; CF. inapt: (of statements or ideas) inappropriate
rebuke	scold harshly; criticize severely
dilemma	situation that requires a choice between equally unfavorable options; problem; choice of two unsatisfactory alternatives
girth	distance around something; circumference
crescendo	increase in the volume or intensity as in a musical passage; climax; CF. crescent
convex	curving outward
enliven	make lively or spirited; animate
kudos	honor; glory; acclaim or praise for exceptional achievement
fraudulent	cheating; deceitful; Ex. fraudulent means; N. fraud: deception; swindle
mash	crush into mash; convert into mash; N: mixture of ground grain and nutrients fed to livestock and fowl
charisma	divine gift; great popular charm or appeal; magnetism
compromise	adjust or settle by making mutual concessions; endanger the interests or reputation of; put into danger, disrepute, or a dishonorable position; Ex. compromise one's principle; N.
scale	climb up; ascend; remove or come off in scales; N: flake of epidermis; ascending or descending series of musical tones
philanderer	faithless lover; flirt
rote	repetition; memorization through repetition without understanding; Ex. learn poetry by rote
fallible	liable to err
raspy	making a harsh noise; grating; harsh
decorous	proper (in behavior, conduct, or appearance)
inveterate	deep-rooted; habitual; CF. grow old
felon	person convicted of a grave crime; CF. felony: serious crime
piecemeal	one part at a time; gradually; in stages; Ex. read a novel piecemeal
discordant	not harmonious; conflicting
covenant	binding agreement between two groups or people; compact; V: enter into a covenant; promise
compound	combine; produce by combining; increase; make worse by adding to or increasing; exacerbate; Ex. compound an error; ADJ: consisting of two or more parts; N: combination of two or more parts; area enclosed by a wall containing a group of buildings;
trance	hypnotic state; ecstatic state; detachment from one's physical surrounding (as in contemplation or daydreaming); CF. transition
chassis	framework and working parts of an automobile; framework to which components are attached
venerate	revere; treat with great respect
stalemate	deadlock; situation in which further action is blocked
translucent	partly transparent
eventual	happening at last as a result; Ex. eventual victory
seduce	lead away from proper conduct; entice; ADJ. seductive
crux	essential or main point; Ex. the crux of the problem; ADJ. crucial: of deciding importance
unassailable	not open to attack; impregnable; not subject to question
dispassionate	calm; impartial; not influenced by personal feelings
vying	contending; CF. vie
frenzied	madly excited; N. frenzy: violent wild excitement
elliptical	elliptic; oval; of an ellipse; containing an ellipsis; ambiguous either purposely or because key words have been left out
implore	v. ask or beg earnestly; beseech
incommodious	not spacious; inconvenient
drastic	strong; violent and severe; Ex. drastic changes/measures
lugubrious	mournful; sorrowful
stink	stench; V: emit a strong foul odor
affable	easily approachable; easy to talk to; warmly friendly
exegesis	explanation, especially of biblical(of the bible) passages
yield	amount produced; crop; income on investment; profit obtained from an investment; V: produce; give in; surrender
exemplary	serving as a model; outstanding; Ex. exemplary punishment/behavior; N. exemplar: typical example; model
transcendent	exceeding ordinary limits; superior; surpassing; V. transcend: go beyond; exceed; surpass; N. transcendancy
contest	dispute; argue about the rightness of; compete for; try to win; Ex. contest the election results; Ex. contest a seat in Parliament; N.
despondent	without hope and courage; depressed; gloomy; N. despondency: loss of hope with gloom; dejection
retard	delay (in development); ADJ. retarded: (as of a child) slower in development
hypercritical	excessively exacting; too critical (without noticing good qualities)
adjourn	suspend until a later time; move from one place to another
parched	extremely dry; very thirsty; V. parch: make or become extremely dry (by exposure to heat)
embellish	adorn; ornament; enhance as a story (by adding fictitious details)
acquittal	deliverance from a charge; V. acquit: free from a charge or accusation; discharge from a duty; conduct (oneself) in a specified manner
balmy	soft and mild (of air); fragrant
uniformity	sameness; monotony; ADJ. uniform: the same all over
prodigal	wasteful; reckless with money; profuse; Ex. a mind prodigal of ideas; N. prodigality
subjugate	conquer; bring under control
compliant	readily acting in accordance with a rule, order, or the wishes or others; yielding; comforming to requirements
aquiline	curved; hooked; of or like an eagle; Ex. aquiline nose
shove	push forward; push roughly; Ex. pushing and shoving to get on the bus; N.
embitter	make bitter; fill with painful or bitter feelings; make sad and angry; Ex. He was embittered by many disappointments.
culinary	relating to cooking or kitchen
ethereal	like a spirit or fairy; unearthly light; heavenly; unusually refined; Ex. She has an ethereal beauty; CF. ether: upper air
intolerant	not willing to accept ways of thinking different from one's own; CF. tolerant; CF. tolerate
remediable	reparable
effrontery	rudeness without any sense of shame; shameless boldness; presumptousness; nerve; cheek
belligerent	quarrelsome
ruffian	violent scoundrel; bully
mat	not shiny; matte; having a dull finish; N: flat piece of material used as a floor covering; V.
swathe	swath; wrap around; bandage; Ex. one's head swathed in bandages
shimmer	shine with a flickering light; glimmer intermittently; Ex. The moonlight shimmered on the water; N.
partition	divide into parts
mettle	courage (to continue bravely in spite of difficulties); spirit; ADJ. mettlesome
oatmeal	crushed oats used for making porridge
consternation	great shock; dismay
derelict	negligent; (of someone) neglectful of duty; (of something) deserted by an owner; abandoned; N: abandoned property; homeless or vagrant person
deviate	turn away from (a principle, norm); move away from an accepted standard; swerve; depart; diverge; N. deviation; Ex. deviation of the path of light by a prism
circumvent	outwit; defeat by behaving more cleverly; outsmart; baffle; avoid; get around
candor	frankness; open honesty; ADJ. candid
aberrant	abnormal or deviant
egregious	notorious; conspicuously bad or shocking
limbo	region near heaven or hell where certain souls are kept; prison (slang); Ex. Purgatory and Limbo
overwrought	nervous or excited; extremely agitated; hysterical; wrought-up; CF. wrought: made or done
rail	complain bitterly; scold; rant; Ex. the weaker railing against injustices
nether	lower; Ex. nether garments/regions
emend	correct (usually a text); N. emendation: correction of errors; improvement
blues	state of depression or melancholy; style of slow, mournful music (evolved from southern Black American songs)
ape	imitate or mimic (a person's behavior or manner)
cavalcade	procession of riders or horse-drawn carriages; parade; CF. cavalry
ward	administrative division of a city; division in a hospital or prison; incompetent person placed under the protection of a guardian; V: guard; ward off: avert
pragmatist	practical person; N. pragmatism: pragmatic way of dealing with things
fruition	bearing of fruit; fulfillment; realization; Ex. come to/be brought to fruition
posthumous	after death (as of child born after father's death or book published after author's death); coming or occurring after one's death; Ex. posthumous fame/novel
asylum	place of refuge or shelter; protection (religious or political)
clout	great influence (especially political or social); hard blow with fist
prerogative	privilege; unquestionable right; CF. ask before
fluctuate	waver; shift; rise and fall as if in waves; change or vary irregularly
dissension	disagreement of opinions causing strife within a group
humane	marked by kindness or consideration; kind and compassionate; humanitarian
concomitant	that which accompanies; Ex. Deafnes is a frequent concommitant of old age; ADJ: existing or happening together with something else
pecuniary	pertaining to money
maneuver(manoeuver)	strategic military or naval movement (done for training purposes); carefully planned process; stratagem; V: carry out a military maneuver; use maneuvers in gaining an end
sepulcher	tomb; V: place in a sepulcher; ADJ. sepulchral
penance	self-imposed punishment for sin; Ex. do penance for one's sins; CF. penitent
pied	piebald; variegated(many-colored); multicolored
serrated	having a sawtoothed edge; Ex. serrated leaf
bucolic	rustic; pastoral
plenary	(of power) complete; full; fully attended by all qualified members; Ex. plenary power
efface	rub out; remove the surface of
noisome	foul smelling; very unpleasant; unwholesome
capacity	mental or physical ability; role; position or duty; ability to accommodate; Ex. in my capacity as president
discount	disregard; regard (a story or news) as unimportant; deduct from a cost
hallowed	blessed; consecrated; Ex. hallowed ground; V. hallow: set apart as holy
seasonable	occurring at the proper time or season; opportune; Ex. seasonable intervention in the dispute
humble	of low rank or position; modest; having a low opinion of oneself and a high opinion of others; unassuming; not proud; V. humiliate: make humble; cause to feel ashamed or to lose the respect of others
peruse	read through with care; N. perusal
dilate	expand; dilate on/upon: speak or write at length on (a subject)
relapse	return to a former state (esp. after improvement); N.
quixotic	idealistic but impractical; CF. Don Quixote
vindicate	clear from blame; free from blame or accusation (with supporting proof); exonerate; substantiate; justify or support; avenge; Ex. vindicate one's client; Ex. vindicate one's claim; CF. vindicator
overwhelm	(of water) cover completely; defeat completely by much greater force; Ex. overwhelmed by grief
venial	(of a fault or sin) forgivable; trivial
dissipate	squander; waste foolishly; scatter
emollient	soothing or softening remedy (for the skin); ADJ.
append	attach
imminent	impending; near at hand
optimum	most favorable; optimal; N: most favorable condition
viable	capable of maintaining life; feasible; practical or workable; Ex. viable scheme
tribulation	suffering; ordeal; distress; trial
prostrate	stretch out full on ground; make prostrate; enervate; Ex. prostrating illness; ADJ: lying face down; having lost all strength
contention	assertion; claim; thesis; struggling; competition
insurmountable	overwhelming; unbeatable; insuperable
don	put on; OP. doff
congenital	existing at birth
paramour	illicit lover
wrangle	quarrel noisily; obtain through arguing; herd cattle; N.
teetotalism	practice of abstaining totally from alcoholic drinks; N. teetotaler;; ADJ. teetotal; CF. T + total
imply	suggest a meaning not expressed; signify
vainglorious	boastful; excessively conceited; N. vainglory: great vanity
filigree	delicate ornamental lacelike metalwork
exertion	effort; expenditure of much physical work; V. exert oneself: make a great effort
propitiate	appease; conciliate; make peaceful; ADJ. propitiatory
recant	disclaim or disavow; retract a previous statement; openly confess error; Ex. recant one's faith/a statement
oratorio	dramatic poem set to music; long musical work with singing but without acting; CF. cantata
libidinous	lustful
exact	demand and obtain by force; Ex. exact a promise from him; N. exaction
insalubrious	unwholesome; not healthful; Ex. insalubrious place
temperament	characteristic frame of mind; disposition; emotional excess; ADJ. temperamental: of temperament; having frequent changes of temper; Ex. temperamental dislike of sports; Ex. temperamental actress
brink	edge (at the top of a cliff); Ex. on the brink of the Grand Canyon
ingenuous	naive and trusting; young; unsophisticated; candid
pang	sudden sharp feeling of pain
discredit	defame; disgrace; destroy confidence in; disbelieve; N. CF. discreditable: causing discredit; shameful
renovate	restore to good condition; renew
sphinx-like	enigmatic; mysterious
solecism	nonstandard grammatical construction; construction that is flagrantly incorrect grammatically; violation of social etiquette
medium	element that is a creature's natural environment; nutrient setting in which microorganisms are cultivated; appropriate occupation or means of expression; channel of communication; compromise; middle position between extremes; intervening substan
foreshadow	give an indication beforehand; be a sign of (what is coming); portend; prefigure
ambience	environment; atmosphere; Ex. restraurant with a pleasant ambience; ADJ. ambient: completely surrounding; Ex. ambient temperature
repast	meal; feast; banquet
naivet\'e(naivety)	quality of being unsophisticated; simplicity; artlessness; gullibility; ADJ. naive(na\"ive): ingenuous; lacking worldliness; simple; credulous
depredation	plundering; destruction
braggadocio	boasting
atrophy	wasting away; V: weaken and lose flesh and muscle (through lack of blood or lack of use)
reek	emit (an unpleasant odor or smoke); give off an unpleasant odor; give out smoke; Ex. reeking chimney; N: unpleasant odor; stench
fitful	spasmodic; intermittent; irregular
aloft	upward; high up in the air
antiseptic	substance that prevents infection in a wound; ADJ.
tranquillity	calmness; peace
threat	sign or warning (of coming danger); Ex. threat of rain; V: express a threat; give warning of (something bad); Ex. The cloud threatens rain.
tangential	only slightly connected; not central; peripheral; digressing; showing divergence; CF. tangent
felicitous	(of a word or remark) apt; suitably expressed; well chosen
willowy	flexible; pliant; slender; CF. willow
wage	begin and continue (a war)
toga	Roman outer robe
rig	arrangement of masts and sails; V: equip (a ship) with rigging; ADJ. rigging: ropes that hold up a ship's sails
equity	fairness; justice; OP. inequity
determination	resolve; firmness of purpose; measurement or calculation; decision
blotch	spot; blot; CF. blot+botch
sage	person celebrated for wisdom; wise person; ADJ: wise
laceration	torn ragged wound; V. lacerate: tear (the skin as with broken glass); wound
verity	quality of being true; lasting truth or principle; Ex. the verity of his testimony; Ex. one of the eternal verities
wade	 walk through a substance, such as water, that impedes movement
superfluous	excessive; overabundant; unnecessary; N. superfluity
partial	incomplete; favoring one side over another; having a liking for something
brim	uppermost edge of a cup; projecting rim (as on a hat); Ex. The glass was full to the brim; V: be full to the brim
germ	earliest form of an organism; seed or bud; something that may develop into something larger or more important; microbe
perjury	false testimony while under oath; V. perjure oneself: testify falsely under oath
legend	explanatory list of symbols on a map
uncanny	strange; mysterious; Ex. uncanny knack
barterer	trader; V. barter: trade; exchange good for other goods rather than money
sluggard	lazy person
filing	particle removed by a file
entity	real being
confidant(confidante)	trusted friend (to whom one tells one's secret)
errant	wandering (esp. in search of adventure); straying from proper moral standards; Ex. knight-errant
provision	act of providing; something provided; preparatory measure; provisions: necessary supplies (esp. food); stipulation; condition in an agreement; Ex. According to the provisions of the agreement
inaugurate	begin formally; install in office; induct into office by a formal ceremony; N. inauguration; ADJ. inaugural
chortle	chuckle with delight; N.
unsavory	distasteful; disagreeable; morally offensive; Ex. unsavory activity/reputation
debutante	young woman making formal entrance into society
savory	pleasant in taste; tasty; pleasing, attractive, or agreeable; Ex. savory reputation
brunt	main impact or shock (of an attack or blow); Ex. brunt of the argument
hamper	obstruct; prevent the free movement of;
pulse	rhythmical throbbing of arteries; brief sudden change in a normally constant quantity; V: pulsate
severity	harshness; intensity; sternness; austerity; ADJ. severe: harsh; strict; extremely violent or intense
dislodge	remove (forcibly); force out of a position; Ex. dislodge the food caught in his throat; CF. lodge
pedagogy	teaching; art of education
rightful	legally correct; Ex. rightful owner
swagger	walk or behave with an over-confident manner
vigilante	one who without authority assumes law enforcement powers
engross	occupy fully; absorb
incorporeal	without a material body; insubstantial
abrasive	rubbing away; tending to grind down
heed	pay attention to; N: close attention
hieroglyphic	picture writing; ADJ.
cordial	warmly friendly; gracious; heartfelt; Ex. cordial welcome
bridle	harness fitted about a horse's head (used to restrain); curb; check; V: put a bridle on; control or restrain; show anger
claustrophobia	fear of being locked in
paradigm	model; example that serves as a model; pattern; list of all the inflectional forms of a word
beneficent	kindly; doing good
carousal	drunken revel; V. carouse
mar	spoil the appearance of
agglomeration	collection; heap; V. agglomerate: gather into a rounded mass; N. aggolmeate: jumbled mass; heap
anchor	secure or fasten firmly; be fixed in place; N. anchorage
truism	self-evident truth
frigid	intensely cold; cold in manner; Ex. frigid zone
flagrant	conspicuously wicked, bad, or offensive; blatant; outrageous
shackle	chain; fetter; confine with shackles; N.
enlist	(cause to) join the armed forces; obtain (help, sympathy, or support)
confidence	self-assurance; calm unworried feeling based on a strong belief in one's abilities; strong belief in the ability of a person or plan; trust or faith in a person or thing; something confided; secret; Ex. confidence in your ability; Ex. I'm telling yo
gloss	brief explanation note or translation of a difficult expression; V.
scanty	meager; insufficient
voyeur	Peeping Tom; person who derives sexual gratification from observing the sexual acts of others
liaison	contact that keeps parties in communication; communication between groups; one that maintains communication; go-between; secret love affair; V. liaise: keep a connection
agnostic	one who is skeptical of the existence or knowability of a god or any ultimate reality
slight	insult to one's dignity; snub; V: treat as if of small importance; insult; snub; ADJ. small in size; of small importance
contingent	dependent on something uncertain or in the future; conditional; happening by chance; accidental; N: a group of soldiers, ships to a larger force; CF. contingency: future event that may or may not occur; possibility; Ex. prepare for every contingency
bulge	protruding part; swelling of a surface; Ex. The apple made a bulge in his pocket; V: swell outward; protrude
reticent	inclined to silence; uncommunicative; reserved; Ex. He was reticent about the reasons; N. reticence
parallel	similar; analogous; corresponding; N: parallel line; person or thing that is parallel (to another); similarity; Ex. know of no parallel to the case; Ex. without parallel; V: be similar to; make parallel; Ex. Your experience parallels mine; CF. unp
pacifist	one opposed to force; antimilitarist; ADJ. N. pacifism: opposition to war as a means of resolving disputes
adherent	supporter; follower
sect	separate religious body; faction; group of people with common beliefs within a larger group
peer	one who has equal standing with another; nobleman; V: look intently; N. peerage; CF. peeress
suborn	persuade to act unlawfully (especially to commit perjury); N. subornation
pallet	small poor bed; Ex. straw pallet
vigor	active strength; energy; enthusiasm; ADJ. vigorous
miserly	stingy; mean
carping	petty criticism; fault-finding; fretful complaining; quibble
resonant	(of a sound) echoing; resounding(sounding loudly); deep and full in sound; producing resonance; Ex. resonant voice; N. resonance
idle	not working; not employed or busy; lazy; without purpose; useless; lacking substance; baseless; not based on truth; Ex. idle worker; Ex. talk idly; V.
circuit	closed circular line around an area; circumference; regularly repeated journey from place to place
amicable	peaceful; politely friendly; not quarrelsome; Ex. amicable settlement
soar	rise or fly high in the air; Ex. The rocket soared into the sky.
furor	frenzy; great anger and excitement; CF. fury
knit	contract into wrinkles; grow together; join together closely; make (a fabric or garment) by interwining yarn or thread; Ex. knit the brow; Ex. The bones should knit together in a few weeks.
institutionalize	make into an institution; put or confine in an institution
spectrum	colored band produced when a beam of light passes through a prism; broad and continuous range; Ex. whole spectrum of modern thoughts
hoard	stockpile; accumulate for future use; N: supply stored for future use
vernal	pertaining to spring
delude	deceive
autocratic	having absolute unchecked power; dictatorial; N. autocrat, autocracy
bereaved	deprived of (someone beloved through death)
moratorium	legal delay of payment or action; Ex. declare moratorium on the building of new houses
rampant	growing or spreading uncontrollably; growing in profusion; unrestrained; Ex. rampant lawlessness/weed
warren	tunnels in which rabbits live; overcrowded living area; crowded conditions in which people live
hull	husk; dry outer covering of a seed; frame or body of a ship
adroit	skillful (in using mind or hand)
convulsion	violent uncontrollable shaking movement (caused by illness); V. convulse; ADJ. convulsive
introspective	looking within oneself; N. introspection: self-examination
disdain	treat with scorn or contempt
pathos	tender sorrow; pity; quality in art or literature that produces these feelings; Ex. pathos that runs through the novel
venison	meat of a deer; CF. cow: beef; CF. pig: pork, ham, bacon; CF. calf: veal; CF. sheep: mutton; CF. lamb: lamb
flighty	(esp. of a woman's behavior) capricious; often changing, esp. from one lover to another; impulsive
overthrow	topple; N.
equestrian	rider on horseback; ADJ.
sterile	incapable of producing young; free from microorganism; V. sterilize
galleon	large three-masted sailing ship
gross	total; fragrant; clearly wrong; (of people's behavior) coarse; corpulent; Ex. gross insolence/behavior; V: earn as a total amount; N: 12 dozens
defiance	refusal to yield; resistance; V. defy; ADJ. defiant
trek	travel; journey; V: make a long difficult journey
jurisprudence	science of law
upbraid	reprimand; severely scold
amnesia	loss of memory
astronomical	enormously large or extensive
aureole	sun's corona; halo; bright circle of light
latent	present but not yet noticeable or active; dormant; hidden; N. latency; CF. potential
prophetic	of a prophet or prophecy; having to do with predicting the future; N. prophecy; V. prophesy; N. prophet
indenture	bind as servant or apprentice to master; bind by indenture; N: contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified time (as between an apprentice and his master)
frieze	ornamental horizontal band on a wall
rebuttal	refutation; response with contrary evidence; V. rebut: refute; disprove
disinterested	unprejudiced; free from bias and self-interest; objective
cleave	split or sever; cling to; remain faithful to; N. cleavage; ADJ. cloven
rooster	cock; adult male chicken
nectar	drink of the gods; sweet liquid collected by bees
veracity	truthfulness; adherence to the truth
spoilsport	one who spoils the pleasure of others
militant	combative; bellicose; N.
accelerate	move faster
vixen	female fox; ill-tempered woman; CF. shrew
psyche	soul; mind
anonymity	state of being nameless; anonymousness; ADJ. anonymous
herbivorous	grain-eating; CF. herbivore
acknowledge	recognize; admit
wisp	small bunch (of hair); faint streak (of smoke)
niggardly	meanly stingy; parsimonious; N. niggard: stingy person
valediction	saying farewell; expression of leave-taking
Shangri-la	imaginary remote paradise on earth; CF. Lost Horizon
engage	attract; employ; hire; pledge oneself; confront; fight; enter into confliction; interlock; lock together; participate; N. engagement: agreement to marry; arrangement to meet someone or to do something; battle
retinue	following; attendants
partiality	state of being partial; inclination; favorable bias; special fondness; preference
trident	three-pronged spear
hoax	trick which makes someone take action; practical joke; Ex. hoax mail; V.
start	move suddenly or involuntarily; Ex. start at the sight of a snake
contrive	invent or fabricate in a clever way (by improvisation); manage; Ex. contrive to attract his attention
tureen	deep dish for serving soup
lode	metal-bearing vein(long deposit of an ore)
pulmonary	pertaining to the lungs
continence	self-restraint; sexual chastity; sexual abstinence; voluntary control over bladder and bowel functions; ADJ. continent
query	inquiry; question; V.
enthrall	capture; enslave; captivate; hold the complete attention of (as if magic); hold spellbound
fallacious	false; based on a fallacy; misleading; N. fallacy: false idea or notion; false reasoning; Ex. popular fallacy; Ex. fallacy of the argument
accrue	come to one as a gain; accumulate over time; come about by addition; Ex. benefits that accrue from scientific research; Ex. interest accruing in a bank account; N. accrual
spatial	relating to space
dote	be excessively fond of; show signs of mental decline
suckle	give or take milk at the breast or udder
impassioned	(of speech) filled with passion; fervent
rationalize	make rational; devise false reasons for (one's behavior); offer an excuse; give a plausible reason for an action in place of a true, less admirable ones; N. rationalization
prosody	art of versification; study of the metrical structure of verse
umbrage	resentment; anger; sense of injury or insult; Ex. take umbrage at his rudeness
gust	strong abrupt rush of wind; V. CF. bluster
serendipity	gift for finding valuable things by accident; accidental good fortune or luck; CF. The Three Princes of Serendip
influx	flowing into
nuptial	related to marriage or the wedding ceremony; N. nuptials: wedding ceremony
bountiful	generous; graciously generous; showing bounty
chastise	punish as by beating; criticize severely
bombardment	attack (as with missiles or bombs); V. bombard
relevant	having importance; pertinent; referring to the case in hand; N. relevance, relevancy
uproarious	marked by commotion or uproar; very noisy (esp. with laughter); hilarious; causing loud laughter; extremely funny
incite	arouse to action; goad; motivate; induce to exist; Ex. incite a riot/the crowd to rebellion
indomitable	unconquerable; unyielding
metamorphosis	change of form; Ex. metamorphosis of caterpillar to butterfly; V. metamorphose: change by metamorphosis
destitute	extremely poor; lacking means of subsistence; utterly lacking; devoid; Ex. destitute of any experience
generality	vague statement; general statement which is not detailed; quality of being general; greater part; most; Ex. generality of people
glossary	brief explanation of words used in the text
fester	rankle; produce irritation or resentment; (of a cut or wound) generate pus or rot; Ex. His insult festered in my mind for days.
sinuous	twisting; winding; bending in and out; not morally honest
eschew	avoid habitually; Ex. eschew alcoholic drinks
perfidious	treacherous; disloyal; N. perfidy: treachery
rendition	rendering; translation; artistic interpretation of a song, etc
murmur	low, indistinct, continuous sound; V. CF. mumble
robust	strong; vigorous
whinny	neigh like a horse; CF. neigh: make the sound which horses make
indigent	poor; destitute
tundra	rolling treeless plain in Siberia and arctic North America
improvise	compose on the spur of the moment
vent	release or discharge through a vent; express (esp. unfairly); utter; Ex. He vented his wrath on his family.
shun	keep away from; avoid deliberately; Ex. She has been shunned by her neighbors.
rummage	ransack; thoroughly search
fluency	smoothness of speech; ADJ. fluent
refrain	abstain from; resist; forbear; N: chorus
preamble	introductory statement
divest	strip (as of clothes); deprive (as of rights); dispossess; N. divestiture(divestment)
prevaricate	lie; hide the truth (by equivocating)
trite	hackneyed; commonplace
wean	accustom a baby not to nurse; accustom (the young of a mammal) to take nourishment other than by suckling; give up a cherished activity; cause to gradually leave (an interest or habit); Ex. wean oneself from cigarettes
epaulet(epaulette)	ornament worn on the shoulder (of a uniform, etc.)
wan	having a pale or sickly color; pallid
curb	chain or strap used with a bit to restrain a horse; something that checks; V: check; restrain
primal	first in rank or importance; being first in time; original; Ex. man's primal innocence
privation	lack of the basic necessities or comforts of life; hardship; want; CF. deprive
whet	sharpen; stimulate; Ex. whet someone's appetite
reserve	self-control; self-restraint; formal but distant manner; reticence; Ex. without reserve: freely and openly; ADJ. reserved: shy and uncommunicative
lavish	liberal; wasteful; generous or wasteful in giving or using; abundant; profuse; great; Ex. decorated lavishly; V. give in abundance
airy	of air; high in the air; lofty; immaterial; unreal
obligatory	binding; required; compulsory; V. oblige: constrain; make grateful; do a favor; accommodate
malicious	hateful; spiteful; expressing malice; N. malice: desire to harm others; spite
hapless	unfortunate; luckless
brackish	somewhat saline
diversion	act of turning aside; pastime; V. divert: turn aside from a course; distract; amuse
fetter	shackle; restrict the freedom of; N. chain or shackle for the foot of a prisoner; CF. foot
gait	manner of walking or running; speed
verve	enthusiasm (as in artistic performance or composition); liveliness; vigor
homely	not good-looking; unattractive
tipple	drink (alcoholic beverages) frequently; N: alcoholic drink
adjutant	staff officer assisting the commander; assistant
subservient	behaving like a slave; servile; obsequious; subordinate; N. subservience
intrigue	make secret plans; plot; arouse the curiosity of; N: secret scheme; plot; secret love affair
generic	characteristic of an entire class or species; of a genus
assumption	something taken for granted; the taking over or taking possession of; Ex. her assumption of power; V. assume
potable	suitable for drinking; drinkable
bog	soft wet land; V: hinder or be hindered; Ex. bogged down in the mud
anodyne	drug that relieves pain or trouble;opiate; ADJ. Ex. anodyne statement
truncate	cut the top off; shorten
outlook	point of view; view from a particular place; expectation for the future; prospect; Ex. outlook on life; Ex. pleasing outlook; Ex. weather outlook
annotate	comment; make explanatory notes
pandemic	widespread; affecting the majority of people; N: pandemic disease; CF. all people
excoriate	scold with biting harshness; censure strongly; strip the skin off
blush	become red in the face (from embarrassment or shame); become red or rosy; N.
deport	send out of the country; behave; N. deportation, deportment
jaundiced	yellowed; prejudiced (envious, hostile, or resentful) from long and disappointing experience of human affairs; Ex. with a jaundiced eye
macerate	soften by soaking in liquid; waste away; Ex. macerate powdered wood to make paper
raconteur	story-teller; one who tells stories with wit and skill
victuals	food; provisions; V. victual: provide with food
undermine	weaken gradually; sap; dig a mine beneath
salubrious	healthful; conducive to health or well-being; socially desirable; Ex. salubrious area; CF. health
patois	local or provincial dialect
camaraderie	good-fellowship; CF. comrade
modish	fashionable; conforming to the current fashion
refectory	dining hall; room where meals are served (in a school)
galley	low ship with sails (rowed along by slaves)
mortician	undertaker; CF. death
acrophobia	fear of heights
grumble	complain; mutter discontentedly; grouch; N.
medley	mixture
irremediable	incurable; uncorrectable; impossible to remedy
stoic	stoical; impassive; unmoved by joy or grief; N. CF. stoicism
volatile	changeable; of a quickly changing nature (as of temper); mercurial; tending to violence; evaporating rapidly; Ex. volatile character/situation in the street
hatch	deck opening; lid covering a deck opening; V: emerge from an egg; produce (young) from an egg
denizen	(animal, person, or plant) inhabitant or resident of a particular place; regular visitor
collected	composed; calm; self-possessed
supernumerary	person or thing excess of what is necessary; extra; ADJ: additional to the usual or necessary number
velocity	speed
tautological	needlessly repetitious; Ex. ``It was visible to the eye''; N. tautology: needless repetition of the same sense; statement that is always true
sylvan	pertaining to the woods or the country
hypocritical	pretending to be virtuous; deceiving; N. hypocrisy: profession of beliefs one does not possess; CF. hypocrite
rapt	engrossed; absorbed; enchanted; Ex. rapt listener
disavowal	denial; disclaiming; repudiating; disowning; V. disavow; CF. disclaim
gangrene	decay of body tissue caused by insufficient blood supply (usually following injury); ADJ. gangrenous
flit	fly; fly or move lightly or quickly; dart lightly; pass swiftly by; Ex. a bee flitting from flower to flower
genealogy	record of descent; lineage; ancestry; study of ancestry
enact	make (a bill) into law
indentation	notch; deep recess; V. indent; CF. tooth
prolixity	tedious wordiness; verbosity; ADJ. prolix: wordy; verbose; diffuse
potion	dose (of liquids); liquid dose
effluvium	noxious(harmful) smell
conversant	familiar with; having knowledge of
bluster	blow in heavy gusts; threaten emptily; bully; speak in a noisy or bullying manner; CF. breeze, gust, gale
misdemeanor	minor crime; misdeed; wrongdoing
incubus	burden; very worriying problem; mental care; nightmare; male devil; CF. succubus
pretext	excuse
solder	repair or make whole by using a metal alloy; N: metal alloy (usually tin and lead) used in the molten state to join metallic parts
invalid	one incapacitated(disabled) by a chronic illness; ADJ: incapacitated by illness; not valid; null; V: allow to leave (a military force) because of ill-health
chuckle	laugh quietly
therapeutic	curative; N. therapy
cumbersome	heavy and awkward to carry or wear; burdensome; Ex. cumbersome parcel/uniform
trickster	person who cheats people
incubate	hatch; warm (eggs) with the body to promote hatching; maintain at optimal environment conditions for development; be holding in one's body an infection which is going to develop into a disease; N. incubation; CF. incubation:disease
permeable	that can be permeated; penetrable; porous; allowing liquids or gas to pass through; V. permeate: spread or flow throughout; charge
fete(f\^ete)	honor at a festival; celebrate or honor with a feast; N. (outdoor) festival or feast; CF. feast
cohorts	group of people who share some common quality; armed band; a group of between 300 and 600 soldiers under one commander (in the ancient Rome)
adhere	stick fast; be a devotd follower; N. adhesion: adhering; devotion; loyality
rubble	fragments (esp. from a destroyed building)
concatenate	link as in a chain
tablet	 small round piece of medicine; flat piece of stone or metal bearing an inscription; Ex. stone tablet on the wall
libel	defamatory written statement; act of writing something that smears a person's character; V. ADJ. libelous
premonition	forewarning; presentiment; foreboding
ecliptic	path of the sun and the planets
sinister	evil; ominous
surge	powerful movement of or like a wave; V.
penchant	strong inclination; strong liking (esp. for something that is disapproved of by other people); Ex. penchant for fast cars
integral	complete; necessary for completeness; Ex. integral part
conundrum	riddle; difficult problem
stately	formal; ceremonious; grand in style or size; majestic
mock	ridicule; deride; imitate often in derision
pretend	feign; pretend to: claim to possess; make pretensions to; Ex. I don't pretend to much expertise; N. pretense
integrate	make whole; combine; make into one unit
minute	extremely small; CF. minutes: official record of the proceedings at a meeting
amalgamate	(of societies or groups) combine; unite in one body
homily	sermon; tedious moralizing lecture; serious warning; ADJ. homiletic
imposture	assuming a false identity; masquerade; CF. impostor
dart	move or throw suddenly and quickly
subaltern	subordinate
rasp	(of a sound) grate on (eg. nerves); make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; rub with something rough; Ex. The cat's tongue rasped my hand.
pry	inquire impertinently (someone else's private affairs); use leverage to raise or open something; prize; N. pries: tool for prying
discord	conflict; lack of harmony; dissonance (when musical notes are played)
crevice	crack; fissure
aghast	filled with great surprise or fear; horrified
imperious	domineering; too commanding; haughty; CF. imperial/emperor
melancholy	gloomy; morose; blue; N. ADJ. melancholic; CF. melancholia
executor	person designated to execute the terms of a will;
schism	division into factions (esp. within a religious body); split
run-down	(of a place) dilapidated; in a bad condition; (of a person) weak or exhausted
trinket	knickknack; bauble; cheap jewelry
sustenance	sustaining; means of livelihood, support, food, nourishment; something that maintains life; food
hut	crude dwelling; shack
imbue	saturate(soak thoroughly); fill; Ex. imbue someone with feelings
surrogate	substitute; person or thing used in place of another; Ex. surrogate mother; ADJ.
belabor	harp on; dwell on tediously; explain or go over excessively or to a ridiculous degree; assail verbally; beat severely; attack physically
unbridled	violent; uncontrolled; Ex. unbridled rage/greed
flux	flowing; series of changes; fluctuation; Ex. in a state of flux
hostage	person who is kept as a prisoner by an enemy so that the other side will do what the enemy demands
staid	serious and sedate; sober; Ex. staid during the funeral ceremony
glut	overstock; fill beyond capacity (with food); fill to excess; N: oversupply
cerebration	thought; working of the brain
rustic	pertaining to country people; unsophisticated; simple; crude; uncouth; (of furniture) rough with the bark left on; N. rural person; rustic person
hardy	(of people or animals) sturdy; robust; (of plants) able to stand inclement(stormy) weather
genesis	beginning; origin
replicate	reproduce; duplicate
prone	inclined to; likely to (suffer); prostrate; lying with the front downward; Ex. prone to disease/make mistakes; Ex. accident-prone
voluble	fluent; talkative; glib; N. volubility
sardonic	scornfully mocking; disdainful; sarcastic; cynical; Ex. sardonic smile
finesse	delicate skill; V: handle with finesse
artless	without guile; open and honest
indisputable	too certain to be disputed; beyond doubt
cede	yield (title or territory) to (esp. after losing a war); surrender formally; N. cession
engaged	employed; busy; betrothed; involved in conflict
nebula	diffuse mass of interstellar dust or gas; galaxy
depravity	extreme corruption; wickedness; V. deprave
peon	landless agricultural worker; bond servant; menial worker; N. peonage
turncoat	traitor
incontrovertible	indisputable; impossible to dispute; not open to question; unquestionable
ejaculation	exclamation; abrupt ejection (to discharge sperm); V. ejaculate
delineate	portray; depict; sketch; describe; N. delineation
outgoing	sociable; eager to mix socially with others
allocate	assign; set apart for a particular purpose
transcendental	going beyond common thought or ideas; impossible to understand by practical experiences or practices; known only by studying thoughts or intuition; OP. empirical; CF. transcendentalism
cacophonous	discordant; inharmonious; N. cacophony: unpleasant mixture of loud sounds
audacious	daring; bold; N. audacity
chant	tune(melody) in which a number of words are sung on the same note; V: sing (a chant); utter (a slogan) in the manner of a chant
loft	room or space under the roof; attic
listless	lacking in spirit or energy; languid
ragamuffin	dirty child in torn clothes; person wearing tattered clothes
compartment	one of the parts into which an enclosed space is divided
shrew	scolding woman; very small mouselike animal
seasoned	experienced
regale	entertain
scurry	move hastily; hurry; move briskly
trample	step heavily with the feet; crush under the feet
callous	hardened; unfeeling; without sympathy for the sufferings of others; unkind
affected	artificial; pretended
oculist	physician who specializes in treatment of the eyes
ingratiate	become popular with; bring (oneself) in favor of another; Ex. ingratiate himself with the boss
riveting	holding one's attention; absorbing; engrossing
imponderable	weightless; that cannot undergo precise evaluation; CF. pound
founder	person who establishes (an organization or business)
inestimable	impossible to estimate; (apprec) invaluable; of immeasurable worth
berate	scold strongly
impediment	hindrance; stumbling-block; speech defect preventing clear articulation; Ex. speech impediment
auxiliary	offering or providing help; additional or subsidiary; N: helper; assistant
exorbitant	(of costs or demands) excessive; exceeding reasonable bounds
hydrophobia	fear of water; rabies
inscrutable	difficult to understand; impenetrable; not readily understood; mysterious
insensate	without feeling; lacking sense; foolish
gaffe	social blunder
illimitable	infinite; limitless
sovereignty	complete independence and self-government (of a country); supremacy of authority; power to govern
gnome	dwarf; underground spirit who guards treasure hoards
obsequious	slavishly attentive; servile; full of servile compliance; sycophantic
moribund	dying; at the point of death; CF. death
vortex	whirlwind; whirlpool; center of turbulence; predicament into which one is inexorably plunged
beguile	deceive; mislead or delude; cheat; pass time pleasantly; charm or attract; Ex. beguiling smile
cynical	skeptical or distrustful of human motives; N. cynicism; CF. cynic: person who believes all people are motivated by selfishness
odious	arousing strong dislike; hateful(causing hatred); vile
Occident	the West
rectify	set right; correct; CF. rect-: right
erotic	pertaining to passionate love or sexual love
fervor	glowing ardor; intensity of feeling; quality of being fervent or fervid; zeal; intense heat
volition	act of using one's will; act of making a conscious choice; Ex. She selected this dress of her own volition.
lubricate	apply a lubricant to; N. lubricant: substance that reduces friction
wrest	obtain by pulling violently; pull away; take by violence; Ex. wrest victory from their grasp
panoramic	denoting an unobstructed and comprehensive view; N. panorama: unbroken view of a wide area
dearth	scarcity
supposition	assumption; hypothesis; surmise; V. suppose
concession	an act of yielding; conceding; something conceded; point, right, etc. given unwillingly; privilege of maintaining a business in a certain place; Ex. oil concessions in the North sea; CF. concessionaire
tantamount	equivalent in effect or value; Ex. This invasion is tantamount to a declaration of war; CF. amount
quirk	sudden sharp turn or twist; startling twist; caprice; idiosyncrasy; peculiarity of behavior; Ex. by a quirk of fate
indoctrinate	cause to accept a doctrine without questioning it; Ex. indoctrinated with mindless anti-communism
delta	flat plain of mud or sand between branches of a river
refuse	anything discarded or rejected as worthless; trash
reprove	censure; rebuke; N. reproof
gall	annoy; exasperate; chafe; N: skin sore caused by rubbing (as on the skin of a horse); exasperation
hypnosis	induced sleeping state; ADJ. hypnotic; V. hypnotize
facilitate	help bring about; make less difficult
elucidate	explain; make clear; clarify; enlighten; CF. lucid
malefactor	evildoer; criminal
militate	work against; Ex. militate against the chances of promotion; CF. serve as a soldier
exacerbate	worsen; aggravate; embitter
fatalism	belief that events are determined by forces or fates beyond one's control; ADJ. fatalistic; CF. fatal: causing death
usage	act or manner of using; accepted practice; way in which words are actually used
jostle	shove; bump; push against (someone) rather roughly; Ex. jostled by the crowds
zest	outer skin of an orange used for giving a special taste to food; spice; interest; flavor; spirited enjoyment; Ex. add a certain zest to the affair; Ex. zest for life
bifurcated	divided into two branches; forked
sallow	(of the skin) yellowish and unhealthy-looking; sickly in color; Ex. sallow complexion due to jaundice
gibberish	nonsense; nonsensical or unintelligible talk or writing; babbling
obstinate	stubborn; hard to control or treat; Ex. obstinate cough; N. obstinacy
infamous	notoriously bad; notorious; well known for being bad; Ex. infamous behavior; N: infamy: infamous act; evil fame or reputation
anecdote	short story of an amusing or interesting event
impervious	impenetrable; incapable of being damaged or distressed; incapable of being affected (in one's opinions); Ex. impervious to water/criticism
roil	make liquids murky by stirring up sediment; disturb
peroration	conclusion of an oration; perorating; V. perorate: conclude a speech; speak at great length
chasten	discipline; punish in order to correct; CF. castigate
libertine	debauched person; dissolute or licentious person; rou\'e; CF. free
smattering	slight knowledge; small scattered number or amount; Ex. smattering of German
testator	maker of a will; CF. testatrix
lout	clumsy person; ADJ. loutish; CF. from countrysides ?
enrapture	please intensely; fill with rapture and delight
brawny	muscular; having well-developed muscles
dint	means; effort; Ex. by dint of hard work
illusory	illusive; deceptive; not real
conjure	cause to appear by magic; summon (a devil or a spirit) by magical power; practice magic (esp. by very quick movement of the hands); evoke; conjure up: bring into the mind; Ex. The magician conjured a rabbit out of his hat.
nutrition	process of nourishing or being nourished; CF. malnutrition
rotund	(of a person) fat and round
feral	(of an animal) not domestic; wild
puzzle	baffle or confuse by a difficult problem; ponder over a problem in an effort to solve; clarify or solve by reasoning; Ex. puzzle out the answer; N.
dull	(of colors or surfaces) not bright; cloudy; overcast; boring; (of edge or sound) not sharp; not rapid; sluggish; slow in thinking and understanding; stupid; V.
wretch	miserable person; bad or despicable person; ADJ. wretched: miserable; bad; contemptible; vile
ascribe	refer; attribute; assign
analogy	similarity; parallelism; comparing two similar things
draconian	extremely severe; Ex. draconian punishment; CF. Draco: Athenian politician
ramp	slope; inclined plane or roadway (connecting two levels)
audit	examination of accounts of a business; official examination; V.
impassive	without feeling; expressionless; imperturbable; stoical; Ex. impassive face
florid	ruddy; (of a complexion) reddish; flowery; very ornate; CF. rose
cornucopia	horn (or horn-shaped container) overflowing with fruit and grain; symbol of abundance; horn of plenty
unobtrusive	inconspicuous; not blatant
repartee	quick clever reply
homeostasis	tendency of a system or organism to maintain relative stability or internal equilibrium; CF. homeo-: constant; Ex. homeotherm
reiterate	repeat
graphic	pertaining to the art of delineating; vividly described
well-bred	of good upbringing; well-mannered and refined
legacy	gift made by a will; something handed down from an ancestor
wrath	anger; fury
molten	melted; Ex. molten lava
opulence	extreme wealth; luxuriousness; abundance; ADJ. opulent: possessing great wealth; abundant
denomination	religious group; unit in a system; name or designation; CF. denominator: common trait or characteristic
stealth	action of moving secretly or unseen; slyness; sneakiness; secretiveness; ADJ. stealthy
dissemble	disguise; hide the real nature of; pretend
terrestrial	on or relating to the earth
sleazy	shabby and dirty; flimsy; insubstantial; Ex. sleazy back-street hotel/fabric
vertex	summit; highest point; PL. vertices
regatta	boat or yacht race
clientele	body of customers
component	element; ingredient
pilfer	steal things of small value; filch; snitch
interim	meantime; Ex. in the interim; ADJ. taking place during an interim; Ex. interim paper
codicil	supplement to the body of a will; later addition to a will
disabuse	correct a false impression; undeceive; free from a wrong belief
incompatible	inharmonious; N. incompatibility
repugnance	disgust; strong dislike; loathing; ADJ. repugnant: arousing disgust; repulsive
affirmation	positive assertion; confirmation; solemn pledge by one who refuses to take an oath; V. affirm; ADJ. affirmative; CF. affirmative action: positive discrimination
arable	fit for growing crops; Ex. arable land
discriminating	able to see differences; discerning; prejudiced; N. discrimination
rend	split; tear apart; N. rent; CF. heartrending: causing deep sorrow
devout	pious; deeply religious; sincere; earnest; Ex. my devout hope
magistrate	official with power to administer the law
spurious	false; counterfeit; forged; illogical; Ex. spurious arguments
slavish	of or like a slave; servile; showing no originality; copied very closely; Ex. slavish devotion/copy of the original
seemly	(of behavior) proper; appropriate
culvert	artificial channel for water; drain crossing under a road
effectuate	effect; produce; achieve; Ex. effectuate a reconciliation
cogitate	think over; ponder
expos\'e	public revelation of something discreditable
ingenious	marked by inventive skill; clever; resourceful; N. ingenuity
season	enhance the flavor of by adding a spice, etc.; inure; harden; N. seasoning: something used in seasoning
petulant	touchy; peevish; ill-tempered
seismic	pertaining to earthquakes
trifle	something of little importance or value; small amount; Ex. a trifle; V: treat without seriousness; flirt
distrait	absentminded; distracted
askance	with a sideways or indirect look (with disapproval or distruct); Ex. look askance at
phylum	major classification, second to kingdom, of plants and animals; category ranking below a kingdom and above a class; division
coterie	group that meets socially; select circle; close group of people with shared interests
forestall	prevent by taking action in advance
disengage	uncouple; separate; disconnect; stop fighting; OP. engage
simile	comparison of one thing with another, using the word like or as
flashy	showy; gaudy; giving a momentary brilliance
contravene	contradict; oppose; violate (a rule, law, or custom); N. contravention
fancy	imagination (of a whimsical or fantastic nature); capricious liking; V: imagine; be fond of; ADJ. decorative; elaborate
implausible	unlikely (to be true); unbelievable; Ex. implausible alibi
succulent	juicy; full of juice or sap; full of richness; N: succulent plant such as a cactus
pithy	concise and meaningful; substantial; meaty
mosaic	picture made of small colorful inlaid tiles; ADJ.
scintillate	sparkle; flash; be animated; be full of life; Ex. scintillating conversation
assail	assault
subdue	less intense; quieter; Ex. subdued lighting; Ex. subdue: conquer; make less intense; quiet; Ex. subdue one's anger
nip	snip off; stop something's growth or development; bite; make numb with cold; Ex. nip the plan; Ex. A guard dog nipped the postman; Ex. fingers nipped by the extreme chill
conclusive	decisive; ending all debate
requite	make return for; repay; reciprocate; revenge; N. requittal
accessory	additional object; useful but not essential thing
eloquence	expressiveness; persuasive speech; ADJ. eloquent: movingly expressive; expressing ideas well so that the hearers can be influeneced
finished	properly made and complete; Ex. finished product/performance
austere	forbiddingly stern; ascetic; without comfort or enjoyment; severely simple and unornamented; Ex. a monk's austere life; Ex. austere grandeur of the cathedral; N. austerity
pantomime	acting without dialogue; V.
erudite	(of a person or book) learned; full of learning; scholarly; N. erudition
chasm	abyss; very deep crack
funereal	sad; solemn; suitable for a funeral
foist	insert improperly; impose upon another by coercion; palm off; pass off as genuine or worthy; CF. fist
lithe	flexible; supple; CF. limber
intermediary	intermediate; acting as a mediator; N: mediator; go-between
pathological	pertaining to disease; N. pathology: study of disease
transient	staying for a short time; momentary; temporary; N: one that is transient
confluence	flowing together; the place where two rivers flow together; crowd; gathering together
genre	particular variety of art or literature
shrivel	make or become shrunken and wrinkled (often by drying)
check	stop motion; curb or restrain
tatter	torn piece of cloth; ADJ. tattered: (of clothes) old and torn; (of a person) dressed in old torn clothes
trilogy	group of three related works (connected by a shared subject but each complete in itself)
arboretum	place where different trees and shrubs are studied and exhibited
scrap	small bit or fragment; discarded waste material; fight; Ex. a scrap of paper/cloth; V: break into parts for disposal; discard as worthless; fight; quarrel
sift	put through a sieve to separate fine from coarse particles; sort or examine carefully
crone	hag; ugly old woman
anticlimax	letdown in thought or emotion; something unexciting, ordinary, or disappointing coming after something important or exciting
application	diligent attention; diligence; V. apply oneself
temperate	moderate; restrained; self-controlled; moderate in respect to temperature; CF. temperance: moderation and self-restraint; abstinence of alcoholic drinks; Ex. temperance society
realm	kingdom; field or sphere; Ex. not within the realms of possibility
unctuous	oily; bland; insincerely suave
suspend	cause to stop for a period; interrupt; hold in abeyance; defer; hang from above; exclude for a period from a position; Ex. suspended state; Ex. suspend judgment; Ex. suspended from the team; N. suspension
restive	impatiently restless (induced by external coercion or restriction); restlessly impatient; obstinately resisting control; Ex. restive horses because of wolves; CF. not a general synonym for `restless'
trim	make neat or tidy by clipping; reduce by removing what is unnecessary; ornament; decorate (round the edges); Ex. trim the cost; Ex. jacket trimmed with fur; N. ADJ: tidy; in good order
testy	irritable; impatient and bad-tempered; short-tempered; N. testiness
taxonomist	specialist in classifying (animals, etc.); CF. taxonomy: science of classification
generate	cause; produce; create
rebus	representation of words in the form of pictures or symbols; puzzle in which pictures or letters stand for words; Ex. ``R U 18'' is a rebus for ``Are you 18''.
abnegation	renunciation; self-sacrifice; self-abnegation
antediluvian	antiquated; extremely ancient
rustle	make slight sounds like silk moving or being rubbed together
smelt	melt (ore) for separating and removing the metal; melt or blend ores changing their chemical composition
bar	railing in a courtroom; legal profession; vertical line dividing a staff into equal measures; Ex. prisoner at the bar; V: shut in or out with bars; forbid; exclude; CF. barrister
babble	 chatter idly or foolishly; make continuous sounds like water running gently over rounded stone; N.
nirvana	in Buddhist teachings, the ideal state in which the individual loses himself in the attainment of an impersonal beatitude
dogged	determined; stubborn; stubbornly persevering; tenacious; Ex. Inspector Javert's dogged pursuit of Jean Valjean
manumit	emancipate; free from slavery or bondage
gyroscope	apparatus used to maintain balance, ascertain direction, etc.
pander	cater to (the low desires of others)
trunk	main wooden stem of a tree; human body excluding the head and limbs; torso; prehensile nose of an elephant
sate	satisfy to the full; satisfy to excess; cloy
approbation	approval
dowse	use a divining rod to search for underground water or minerals
sap	diminish; weaken; undermine the foundations of (a fortification); Ex. The element kryptonite sapped his strength.
preclude	make impossible; prevent; exclude; eliminate
strangle	kill by choking or suffocating; suppress
incapacitate	disable; N. incapacity: lack of capacity
bereavement	state of being deprived of something valuable or beloved; state of being bereaved or bereft
verdant	green; covered with green plants or grass; lush in vegetation; Ex. verdant meadows
derivation	deriving; origin or source of something; Ex. the derivation of the word
trigger	set off; start
crochet	make (a piece of needlework) by looping thread with a hooked needle; N. CF. crotchet
vernacular	living language (as compared to the official language); language spoken in a country or region; natural style; Ex. lapse into the vernacular
romp	play or frolic boisterously; gambol; N.
dictum	authoritative and weighty statement (made by a judge in court); saying; maxim; CF. obiter dictum: incidental, nonbinding remark (something said in passing)
compile	assemble; gather; accumulate; make (a report or a book) from facts and information found in various places; Ex. compile a dictionary
refractory	unmanageable; disobedient and stubborn; Ex. refractory horse
voluptuous	sensual; of or giving sensual pleasure; indulging in sensual pleasures; Ex. voluptuous lines; Ex. voluptuous life of the Romans; N. voluptuary: voluptuous person
coagulate	congeal; thicken; clot; N. coagulant
liability	drawback; handicap; debts; obligation; responsibility; condition of being liable; ADJ. liable: likely; responsible (for paying)
diabolical	diabolic; devilish; fiendish
commonplace	ordinary; N: something ordinary or common; trite remark
diorama	life-size, three-dimensional scene from nature or history; three-dimensional scene with modeled figures against a painted background
scapegoat	someone who bears the blame for others; whipping boy; CF. escape+goat
vitiate	spoil the effect of; make inoperative; corrupt morally
centrifuge	machine that separates substances by whirling them
inherent	firmly established by nature or habit; intrinsic
meek	submissive; patient and long-suffering
mellifluous	(of words or a voice) sweetly or smoothly flowing; melodious; having a pleasant tune
backslide	revert (to bad habits); N. reverter
supersede	replace; cause to be set aside; make obsolete; N. supersession
alloy	mixture as of metals; something added that lowers in value or purity; V: mix; make less pure; lower in value or quality; spoil; CF. unalloyed: not in mixture with other maetals; pure; complete; unqualified; Ex. unalloyed happiness
egress	exit; opening for going out; act of going out; OP. ingress
dorsal	relating to the back of an animal; Ex. dorsal fin
roseate	rosy; optimistic; Ex. roseate views
analogous	comparable; similar
munificent	very generous in giving; Ex. munificent benefactor; N. munificience
withstand	stand up against; resist successfully
execrable	very bad; detestable
baroque	highly ornate
insatiable	not easily satisfied; unquenchable; Ex. insatiable appetite
connubial	pertaining to marriage or the matrimonial state
appurtenances	subordinate possessions; something added to a more important thing
carnage	destruction of life; slaughter; killing of large numbers of people or animals
authoritative	having the weight of authority; regarded as providing knowledge that can be trusted; reliable; peremptory and dictatorial; Ex. authoritative dictionary/manner; CF. definitive
askew	crookedly; slanted; at an angle
doom	condemnation to a severe penalty; ruin; fate (esp. a tragic or ruinous one); V.
insolence	impudent disrespect; haughtiness; ADJ. insolent; CF. haughty + rude
amorous	moved by sexual love; loving; of sexual love; Ex. amorous advances
pliable	flexible; easily influenced; yielding; adaptable
factotum	handyman; person who does all kinds of work; CF. do everything
potential	expressing possibility; latent; N: capacity for growth
cower	shrink quivering as from fear; cringe
retain	keep; maintain possession of; employ (esp. a lawyer or advisor); N. retainer: servant; fee paid to retain an advisor
mnemonic	pertaining to memory; assisting the memory; N: device, such as as formula or rhyme, used as a mnemonic aid
paragon	model of perfection; Ex. paragon of virtue
superimpose	place over something else
palpitate	throb; beat rapidly; flutter; tremble; Ex. Her heart began to palpitate.
brandish	wave around (a weapon); flourish
spruce	neat and trim in appearance; smart; Ex. Be spruce for your job interview; V.
probe	explore with a probe or tools; investigate; N: slender instrument used to explore a wound or body cavity; device designed to investigate an unknown region; thorough investigation; Ex. space probe
semblance	outward appearance; guise; Ex. We called in the troops to bring a/some semblance of order to the city.
droll	queer and amusing
implacable	incapable of being pacified; impossible to appease; Ex. implacable enemy
conspire	take part in a conspiracy; (of events) work together; combine; Ex. Events conspired to produce great difficulties.
ethos	underlying character of a culture, group, etc.; character or ideas peculiar to a specific person, group, or culture; Ex. the company ethos
remnant	remainder
impede	hide; retard or obstruct the progress of; block
cozen	cheat; hoodwink; swindle
low	moo; make the sound of a cow
tenure	holding of an office or real estate; time during which such an office is held
stereotype	one regarded as embodying a set image or type; fixed and unvarying representation; standardized mental picture often reflecting prejudice; Ex. stereotype of the happy slave; V: make a stereotype of; represent by a stereotype; Ex. It is wrong to ster
reprisal	retaliation
lien	legal claim or right on a property
pyromaniac	person with an insane desire to set things on fire
paradox	something apparently contradictory in nature (that may nonetheless be true); statement that looks false but is actually correct
reparable	capable of being repaired
ratiocination	reasoning; act of drawing conclusions from premises; V. ratiocinate: reason logically
wispy	thin; slight; barely discernible
muted	silent; muffled; toned down; Ex. muted traffic noise
ineffable	unutterable; not to be uttered; taboo; that cannot be expressed in speech; indescribable; unspeakable; inexpressible; Ex. ineffable name/joy
vituperative	abusive; scolding; V. vituperate: berate; scold; rail against abusively
contusion	bruise
detached	emotionally removed; free from emotional involvement; calm and objective; physically separate; N. detachment; CF. attachment
animated	lively; spirited
pretension	pretentiousness; claim (without foundation); Ex. I make no pretensions to skill as an artist.
inebriate	make drunk; intoxicate; N. intoxicated person
remunerative	(of work) compensating; rewarding; profitable; well-paid; V. remunerate: reward; pay (someone) for work or trouble
ductile	malleable; pliable; (of metals) easily pulled into shape; flexible; (of someone) easily influenced or controlled
carnivorous	meat-eating; N. carnivore; CF. herbivore
connoisseur	person competent to act as a judge of art, etc. (whose judgments are respected); a lover of an art
perspicuous	(of something) plainly expressed; easy to understand; Ex. perspicuous comments
jest	playful remark or act; V. act or speak playfully
aversion	firm dislike
rake	immoral or dissolute person
statute	law enacted by the legislature
encircle	surround
torpor	lethargy; sluggishness; dormancy; ADJ. torpid: lethargic; lazy; inactive; (of an animal) dormant; hibernating
indecision	irresolution; inability to make up one's mind
collation	a light meal; collating
pessimism	belief that life is basically bad or evil; gloominess; tendency to take the gloomiest possible view of a situation; ADJ. pessimistic
virtual	in essence; existing in essence though not in actual form; for practical purposes; Ex. virtual ruler/space
arduous	hard; strenuous; Ex. arduous work
feign	pretend
conifer	pine tree (usu. evergreen); cone-bearing tree; ADJ. coniferous; CF. deciduous; CF. evergreen
incense	enrage; infuriate(make furious); make extremely angry; outrage; N: aromatic substance burned to produce a pleasant odor
malleable	(of a metal) capable of being shaped by pounding(beating); pliable; (of someone) impressionable(easily influenced); easily controlled; tractable
asunder	into parts; apart; V. sunder
headstrong	willful; stubborn; unyielding; determined to have one's own way; CF. no 'excessive'
hypothetical	based on assumptions or hypotheses; supposed; N. hypothesis
maniacal	raging mad; insane; N. maniac: insane person; CF. mania: disorder of the mind; intense enthusiasm
disenfranchise	disfranchise; deprive of a civil right; OP. enfranchise
cohesion	tendency to keep together
compulsory	obligatory; that must be done
ooze	(of a thick liquid) pass or flow slowly; N: mud or thick liquid as at the bottom of a river
aggregate	sum; total; ADJ. V: gather into a mass or whole; accumulate; add up to; Ex. aggregate 100 dollars
suavity	urbanity; polish; ADJ. suave: smooth and courteous
politic	prudent; judicious; well judged; expedient; well devised
fusion	union; coalition; V. fuse
pronounced	distinct; very noticeable; Ex. pronounced limp
indulgent	humoring; yielding; lenient; showing indulgence
dispense	distribute; prepare and give out (medicines); N. dispensation: dispensing; religious system; official exemption from an obligation or a rule
dominate	control; rule; enjoy a commanding position in; overlook from a height; ?????????????
conglomerate	corporation made up of several different companies in diversified fields; mass of various material gathered together; rock consisting of small stones held together by clay; V.
bait	harass; tease; torment; Ex. badger baiting; N: food or other lure used to catch fish or trap animals
ventral	abdominal
ungainly	(of someone) awkward in movement; clumsy; (of something) unwieldy; Ex. ungainly dancer/instrument
environ	enclose; surround; N. environs: surrounding area (as of a city)
connotation	suggested or implied meaning of an expression; V. connote
convene	come together; assemble; call to meet; Ex. convene the council
heterodox	(of beliefs) against accepted opinion; unorthodox; unconventional
stoop	bend forward and down; lower or debase oneself; fall to a lower standard of behavior by doing something; condescend; Ex. stoop to lying
maudlin	effusively sentimental
stygian	unpleasantly dark; gloomy; hellish; deathly; CF. Styx: the chief river in the subterranean land of the dead
spurn	reject disdainfully; scorn; Ex. She spurned all offers of help.
fermentation	chemical reaction that splits complex organic compounds; unrest; agitation
energize	invigorate; give energy to; make forceful and active
obviate	make unnecessary; get rid of; Ex. obviate the need
languor	lack of physical or mental energy; lassitude; depression
importune	beg persistently; make repeated requests (in an annoying way)
accord	agreement
bastion	stronghold; something seen as a source of protection; Ex. the last bastion of male chauvinism
disinclination	unwillingness
mete	measure; distribute; administer; Ex. mete out justice/punishment
suffuse	spread through or over (with a color or liquid); charge; Ex. A blush suffused her cheeks.
anarchy	absence of governing body; state of disorder
abate	subside or moderate
knave	untrustworthy person; rogue; scoundrel; jack; N. knavery
incorrigible	uncorrectable
fledgling(fledgeling)	inexperienced; N: young bird that has acquired wing feathers and is learning to fly; inexperienced person
garish	overbright in color; unpleasantly bright; gaudy
insularity	narrow-mindedness; isolation; ADJ. insular: of an island; isolated; narrow-minded; CF. peninsula
attire	clothe; N: clothing; array; apparel
terminal	part that forms the end; railroad or bus station; ADJ. forming an end; ending in death; fatal; Ex. terminal cancer
pulchritude	beauty; comeliness; ADJ. pulchritudinous
irrepressible	unable to be restrained or held back; impossible to hold back
fusillade	simultaneous firing or outburst (of missiles, questions, etc.)
ecologist	person concerned with the interrelationship between living organisms and their environment; person concerned with the detrimental effects of human civilization on the environment; CF. ecology
prototype	original work used as a model by others
blandishment	flattery
aloof	apart; not open in one's relationship with other people; reserved; ADV.
devolve	deputize; pass or be passed to others (power, work, or property); Ex. devolve on/upon/to
vulnerable	susceptible to wounds or attack; N. vulnerability
toll	sound (a large bell) slowly at regular intervals; N: sound of a bell; fixed tax or charge
mirth	merriment; laughter
stem_from	arise from; originate from
treatise	article treating a subject systematically and thoroughly
herald	messenger; sign of something to come; V: announce; proclaim; Ex. unheralded researcher
novelty	something new; newness; ADJ. novel: new; original
uninhibited	unrepressed; free in behavior and feelings
gloat	express evil satisfaction; look at or think about with evil satisfaction; view malevolently; Ex. The thief gloated over the stolen jewels.
queer	strange; eccentric; deviating from the normal
pusillanimous	cowardly; lacking courage; fainthearted
nefarious	very wicked
fake	not genuine; N: one that is not genuine; impostor; sham; V: counterfeit; Ex. fake the results of the experiment/the signature
obtrude	push (oneself or one's ideas) forward or intrude; impose (oneself or one's ideas) on others; butt in; stick out or extrude; thrust out; Ex. obtrude A on B; ADJ. obtrusive; N. obtrusion; CF. unobtrusive
gusty	windy
converge	approach; tend to meet; come together
reimburse	repay; pay back
flinch	hesitate; shrink back (in fear of something unpleasant); Ex. She did not flinch in the face of danger.
subsidy	direct financial aid by government, etc.; V. subsidize: assist with a subsidy
placebo	harmless substance prescribed as a dummy pill
hubbub	confused uproar; loud noise; din
carefree	free from worries; having no problems
piquant	pleasantly tart-tasting; spicy; pleasantly stimulating; Ex. piquant situation when my old enemy asked for my help
debilitate	weaken (esp. through heat, hunger, illness); enfeeble
disaffected	disloyal; lacking loyality; V. disaffect: cause to lose affection or loyalty
predetermine	determine in advance; predestine; settle or decide beforehand; influence markedly
sibylline	prophetic; oracular; N. sibyl: woman prophet (in the ancient world)
stumble	trip and almost fall; proceed unsteadily; act falteringly; N.
tremor	trembling; slight quiver (as of the earth or from nervous agitation)
disproportion	lack of proportion (between the parts); ADJ. disproportionate
cue	word or signal (as in a play to prompt another actor's speech or entrance); reminder or hint; V: give a cue to
veneer	thin surface layer (of good quality wood, glued to a base of inferior material); cover; surface show; fa\c{c}ade; V.
proverb	adage; someone or something well known for notoriety; ADJ. proverbial: of a proverb; widely known; ADV. proverbially
intrude	put or force in without being asked; trespass; enter as an uninvited person; Ex. intrude one's own opinion into the report; CF. thrust in
dignitary	person of high rank or position
merger	combination (of two business corporations); act of merging
balm	something that relieves pain; oily liquid with a pleasant smell from trees
insidious	treacherous; stealthy; sly; working or spreading harmfully in a stealthy manner; Ex. insidious spreading of dry rot
wheedle	deceive, persuade, or obtain by flattery; cajole; coax; Ex. wheedle a promise out of her
capsize	(of a boat) turn over
imperative	absolutely necessary; that must be done; critically important; expressing command; Ex. It is imperative that; N: something that must be done
estranged	separated; alienated; V. estrange: alienate (people in a family); N. estrangement
domineer	rule over tyrannically
polar	of a pole; characterized by opposite extremes; Ex. polar opposites
stun	make unconscious or numb as by a blow; amaze; astound
aberration	deviation from the normal; mental disorder
bust	piece of sculpture showing a person's head, shoulders, and upper chest; V: break up; arrest; Ex. crimebuster
rejuvenate	make young again
levy	impose (a fine); collect (a payment); impose or collect (a tax); Ex. levy a tax on tobacco
impermeable	impervious; not permitting passage through its substance; impossible to permeate
pastry	paste of flour and water (eaten when baked)
traduce	expose to slander
mischance	ill luck
solicitous	anxious; worried; concerned; eager; Ex. solicitous to do something; N. solicitude
ramify	branch out; divide into branches or subdivisions
crypt	secret recess or vault usually used for burial; underground room (under a church)
comely	attractive; agreeable; having a pleasing appearance
projectile	missile; fired or thrown object (such as stone or bullet)
snuffle	sniffle; sniff repeatedly (in order to keep liquid from running out of the nose)
parvenu	upstart; newly rich person
deplore	regret; express sorrow and severe disapproval for something bad; Ex. deplore their violent behavior; ADJ. deplorable: very bad; deserving severe disapproval; Ex. deplorable living condition
brag	boast
shack	crude cabin
thrive	prosper; flourish
visionary	produced by imagination; fanciful; mystical; showing foresight; N: one having foresight; one given to speculative impractical ideas
ephemeral	short-lived; fleeting
expository	explanatory; serving to explain; N. exposition: explaining; exhibition
beleaguer	besiege or attack (with an army); harass; beset
debris	rubble; wreckage; scattered remains of something broken or destroyed
amend	correct; change ; generally for the better
lucid	easily understood; clear; intelligible; N. lucidity
glib	fluent (with insincerity or superficiality); facile; slick
swindler	cheater
affluence	abundance; wealth
feud	bitter prolonged quarrel (usually between two peoples or families); V. CF. Romeo and Juliet; CF. feudal, feudalism
amity	friendship; peaceful relationship as between nations
litotes	understatement for emphasis; Ex. ``not bad(=pretty good)''
sound	in good condition; showing good judgment or good sense; thorough; complete; Ex. sound mind/investment/training
cloying	distasteful (because excessive); excessively sweet or sentimental; V. cloy: become unpleasant through too much sweetness or excess
relinquish	give up something (with reluctance); yield; release; Ex. relinquish power/the claim to the land/his hold on my arm
cessation	stoppage
alms	money or goods given to the poor
madrigal	pastoral song; song for several singers without instruments
disgruntle	make discontented
longevity	long life; long duration
inchoate	(of desire, wish, plan) recently begun; not explicit; at the beginning of development; rudimentary; elementary; Ex. inchoate mass
comprise	include; consist of
gale	windstorm; gust of wind; emotional outburst (laughters, tears); Ex. gale of laughter
circumspect	prudent; cautious; acting after careful thought
embed(imbed)	enclose; place in something; fix firmly in a surrounding mass
distract	take (one's attention) off something; upset emotionally; make anxious; ADJ. distracted
parchment	writing material made from the skin of a sheep or goat
savor	enjoy; have a distinctive flavor, smell, or quality; N: taste or smell; distinctive quality
troth	pledge of good faith especially in betrothal; betrothal; Ex. by my troth
excise	cut away; cut out; N: government tax on good produced and used inside a country; N. excision
dynamo	generator for producing electricity; energetic person
deign	condescend; stoop
dissolution	disintegration; reduction to a liquid form; looseness in morals; sensual indulgence; debauchery; ADJ. dissolute: lacking in moral restraint; leading an immoral life
cadet	student at a military school
concentric	having a common center
impiety	irreverence; lack of respect for God or piety
prodigious	enormous; marvelous; extraordinary; Ex. prodigious amount/memory
engender	cause; produce; give rise to
cistern	reservoir or water tank
chore	daily domestic task (such as cleaning, cooking, and shopping); unpleasant task
gibe	mock; make jeering remarks; N: jeering remarks
spendthrift	someone who wastes money; CF. thrift: accumulated wealth
mesmerize	hypnotize; N. mesmerism; CF. Franz Mesmer
neologism	new or newly coined word or phrase
recline	lie down
habituate	accustom or familiarize; addict
impetus	moving force; momentum; force of a moving body; incentive; stimulus; impulse
bluff	pretense (of strength); deception; high cliff; ADJ: rough but good-natured
evoke	call forth (memory or feeling); Ex. That old film evoked memories of my childhood; N. evocation
piebald	of different colors; mottled; spotted in different colors (esp. in black and white); Ex. piebald horse; CF. pie+bald
unseemly	unbecoming; not proper in behavior; indecent; Ex. leave with unseemly haste
sham	pretend; feign; ADJ: not genuine; fake; Ex. sham jewelry; N: something that is not what it appears; impostor; pretense; Ex. The agreement was a sham.
brave	face courageously; Ex. brave the storm
indifferent	unmoved or unconcerned by; having no interest in; mediocre; neither good nor bad
unkempt	disheveled; uncared for in appearance; not combed; CF. comb
dulcet	sweet sounding; pleasing to the ear; melodious
disclaim	disown; renounce claim to; deny; CF. disclaimer
bristle	short stiff hair; V: (hair or fur) stand up stiffly
welter	wallow (as in mud or high seas); lie soaked (as in blood); Ex. The victims weltered in their blood.
pariah	social outcast; Ex. Mariah the pariah
comprehend	include; understand
expostulation	protest; remonstrance; reasoning with someone to correct or dissuade; V. expostulate
verge	border; edge, rim, or margin; Ex. on the verge of: very near to; V: border on
licentious	amoral; lewd and lascivious; unrestrained
anomaly	irregularity
avenge	take vengence for something or on behalf of someone; Ex. They avenged his death by burning the village; Ex. He swore to avenge his brother; Ex. They avenged themselves on their enemy.
dissonance	discord
gory	bloody; N. gore: blood (from a wound)
dermatologist	one who studies the skin and its diseases
billow	large wave of water; a great swell or surge (of smoke); V: surge, swell, roll in billows
exalt	raise in rank or dignity; praise highly; inspire; Ex. exalt the imagination; ADJ. exalted; N. exaltation
slough	(of a snake) shed or cast off (dead outer skin); N: outer layer that is shed
persevere	continue steadily in spite of difficulties
symmetry	arrangement of parts so that balance is obtained; congruity; ADJ. symmetrical
grapple	wrestle; come to grips with; take hold of and struggle with; Ex. grapple with the burglar
address	direct a speech to; speak to; deal with or discuss; direct one's efforts or attention to; make with a destination; N: formal speech
ignominy	deep disgrace; shame or dishonor; ADJ. ignominious; Ex. ignominous defeat
prolong	lengthen; extend; draw out
increment	increase
chafe	warm by rubbing; make sore by rubbing; N.
martyr	one who voluntarily suffers death for his or her religion or cause; great sufferer; Ex. martyr to his rheumatism
functionary	official (who performs a particular function)
intractable	unruly; difficult to manage; Ex. intractable problem/child
incontinent	lacking self-restraint; not continent; licentious
sportive	playful; frolicsome; merry; CF. sport: play or frolic; CF. sportsmanlike
puerile	childish; immature; CF. puer: boy
contiguous	adjacent to; touching upon
sensual	devoted to the pleasures of the sense; carnal; voluptuous; Ex. sensual woman/curves/lips
propulsive	driving forward; N. propulsion
deft	neat; skillful
decorum	propriety; orderliness and good taste in manners; appropriateness of behavior or conduct
levity	lack of seriousness or steadiness; frivolity; lightness of manner
dissent	disagree
valor	bravery; ADJ. valiant: possessing valor; brave
bedizen	dress with vulgar finery
minion	servile dependent; obsequious follower
ghastly	horrible; terrifying; resembling ghosts; CF. aghast
inane	silly; senseless; Ex. inane remarks; N. inanity
touchy	oversensitive; easily offended; irasible; delicate; needing delicate handling; Ex. touchy situation
ramification	branching out; subdivision; one branch of a system; one of the results following from an action or decision; Ex. ramifications of a business/the decision
colossal	huge
denounce	condemn; criticize; N. denunciation
scion	detached plant shoot used in grafting; descendant
peccadillo	slight offense or fault; CF. sin
rank	offensive in odor or flavor
dingy	(of things and place) dirty and dull; Ex. dingy street/curtain
presume	take for granted; assume; act overconfidently; take liberties; presume on/upon: take unfair advantage of (someone's kindness or connection); N. presumption
cantankerous	ill-humored; irritable
vaunted	boasted; bragged; highly publicized; V. vaunt: boast; brag
subterfuge	stratagem(deceptive scheme); pretense; evasion; Ex. resort to a harmless subterfuge
forebears(forbears)	ancestors
abstemious	sparing in eating and drinking; temperate
impartial	not biased; fair; N. impartiality
arbitrary	unreasonable or capricious; random; tyrannical; Ex. arbitrary ruler
stratagem	deceptive scheme; clever trick
purveyor	furnisher of foodstuffs; caterer; V. purvey: supply (eg. food); furnish; CF. provide
plasticity	ability to be molded; ADJ. plastic: capable of being shaped or molded; Ex. plastic material such as clay
geriatrics	medical treatment and care of old age
curfew	regulation requiring all people to leave the streets at stated times; signal (as a bell) announcing the hour of a curfew
glimmer	shine erratically; twinkle; N: dim or unsteady light; faint indication; Ex. glimmer of hope
larceny	theft; Ex. petit larceny
masochist	person who enjoys his own pain; CF. masochism
hale	healthy
salutary	tending to improve; beneficial; wholesome; Ex. The punishment had a salutary effect on the boy; CF. health
emetic	substance causing vomiting; ADJ.
encomiastic	praising; eulogistic; N. encomium: very high praise; eulogy
pundit	authority on a subject; expert; learned person
discompose	disturb the composure of; confuse
sibling	brother or sister
natty	neatly or smartly dressed; dapper; smart; Ex. natty dresser
antique	made in an earlier period and usu. valuable; N: object that was made in an earlier period and that is rare or valuable
argot	slang; speech spoken by only a small group of people
wither	(of a plant) dry up from loss of moisture; lose freshness; shrivel; decay
blowhard	talkative boaster; braggart
rakish	jaunty; stylish; sporty; morally corrupt; dissolute; Ex. He wore his hat at a rakish and jaunty angle.
titular	of a title; in name only; nominal; having the title of an office without the obligations; Ex. titular head of the company
efficacy	power to produce desired effect; ADJ. efficacious: effectual
tramp	walk with a heavy step; travel on foot; N: vagrant; one who travels aimlessly about; long walk; sound of heavy walking
fortuitous	accidental; by chance; N. fortuity
frolic	play and jump about happily; frisk; Ex. frolicking young lambs
betoken	signify; indicate; be a sign of
altercation	noisy quarrel
undulating	moving with a wavelike motion; V. undulate; CF. und: wave
reverie	daydream; abstracted musing
broach	introduce as a subject; moot; open up
toxic	poisonous; N. toxicity
doggerel	poor verse
bigotry	stubborn intolerance
colossus	gigantic statue; person or thing of great size or importance
perdition	damnation; complete ruin; hell
bolt	door bar; fastening pin or screw; length of fabric; large roll of cloth; V: dash or dart off; fasten (a | door); gobble down
omnipresent	universally present; ubiquitous
whiff	puff or gust (of air, scent, etc.); short-lasting smell; hint; Ex. whiff of perfume/scandal
plebeian	common; vulgar; pertaining to the common people; N: common people in ancient Rome; CF. patrician
castigation	punishment; severe criticism or disapproval
ample	enough; abundant; spacious; large in size; Ex. ample opportunity/garden; N. amplitude: quality of being ample; abundance; largeness of space
luminous	shining (esp. in the dark); issuing light; Ex. luminous paint/road signs
paramount	foremost in importance; supreme; CF. para-: beyond; above; Ex. paranormal
ablution	washing
valid	logically convincing; sound; legally acceptable; effective; Ex. valid reasoning/passport
nemesis	someone seeking revenge; source of downfall or ruin; CF. Nemesis
contaminate	pollute
plethora	excess; overabundance; Ex. a plethora of excuses
noncommittal	neutral; refusing commitment to a particular opinion; unpledged; undecided
inured	accustomed; hardened; Ex. inured to the Alaskan cold; V. inure: make used to something undesirable; harden; CF. unfeeling
slovenly	untidy; careless in work habits; slipshod; N. sloven: one who is habitually untidy or careless
timorous	fearful; timid; demonstrating fear
impregnate	make pregnant; fill thoroughly; saturate
acne	skin disease (on the face)
brochure	pamphlet
satirical	using satire; mocking
flounder	struggle and thrash about; proceed clumsily or falter (as in water, mud, snow, etc.); proceed in confusion
repel	drive away; disgust; Ex. repel the attack/moisture; Ex. repelled by the dirty room; CF. repulsion
miscellany	mixture of writings on various subjects; collection of various items
cadaverous	like a corpse; pale
degradation	humiliation; debasement; degeneration; V. degrade: debase; disgrace; degenerate; reduce (something) in worth; demote (someone); reduce in rank
fauna	animals of a period or region; CF. flora
exposure	risk, particularly of being exposed to disease or to the elements; unmasking; act of laying something open; Ex. exposure of governmental corruption
beneficial	helpful; useful; advantageous
vitreous	of glass; pertaining to or resembling glass; V. vitrify: change into glass; CF. petrify
sartorial	pertaining to tailors or tailoring; Ex. a man of great sartorial elegance; CF. sartor: tailor
inerrancy	infallibility
nomenclature	terminology(system of specialized words); system of names or naming things
igneous	produced by fire; of fire; volcanic; (of rocks) formed from lava; Ex. igneous meteorite
supplant	take the place of unfairly; usurp; replace
jollity	gaiety; cheerfulness; ADJ. jolly: merry; gay
hive	box for bees; V: cause to go in a hive
parasite	animal or plant living on another; toady; sycophant; CF. para-: beside
blue	gloomy; depressed
pensive	dreamily or deeply thoughtful; sadly thoughtful; thoughtful with a hint of sadness; contemplative; CF. think over
affliction	state of distress; trial; cause of distress or suffering; V. afflict: inflict grievous suffering on
outmoded	no longer in fashion or use; no longer stylish; old-fashioned
sensitization	process of being made sensitive or acutely responsive to an external agent or substance; V. sensitize: make or become sensitive
lancet	small surgical tool for making incisions
hoary	white with age
mimicry	imitation
monochromatic	having only one color
anoint	consecrate; put oil on (in a religious ceremony)
mendicant	beggar; ADJ: living as a beggar
iota	very small quantity
roster	list (of names)
dross	waste matter; worthless impurities
redoubtable	formidable; causing fear
optional	not compulsory; left to one's choice; N. option: act of choosing; choice; freedom or power to choose; something available as a choice; Ex. have no option; Ex. two options
marsupial	one of a family of mammals that nurse their offspring in a pouch(pocket of skin or leather); CF. kangaroo, opossum, wombat
hubris	arrogance; excessive self-conceit
introvert	one who is introspective or inclined to think more about oneself; ADJ. introverted
clime	climate
infest	inhabit in numbers large enough to be harmful; Ex. Mice infested the house; Ex. shark-infested waters
natal	connected with birth; CF. prenatal; CF. postnatal
inviolable	secure from corruption, attack, or violation(or profanation); unassailable; Ex. inviolable oath/rights; N. inviolability
fractious	unruly; peevish; cranky; bad-tempered; Ex. fractious horse
earthy	unrefined; coarse; of earth; Ex. earthy remarks; OP. ethereal
hail	frozen rain drop; V: salute or greet; precipitate hail
innate	inborn
gadfly	 animal-biting fly; irritating person
repulsion	distaste; disgust; act of driving back; ADJ. repulsive: causing disgust; tending to drive away; V. repel (not `repulse')
gentle	kindly; soft; mild; of good family
quizzical	curious; suggesting puzzlement (without saying); questioning; teasing; mocking; bantering; Ex. quizzical glance
ligneous	like wood
decoy	lure or bait; V.
squander	waste; spend foolishly
diverge	vary; go in different directions from the same point; ADJ. divergent: differing; deviating
angular	sharp-cornered; having an angle; not rounded (body); bony; lean; gaunt; stiff in manner
edify	instruct; correct morally
invalidate	weaken; destroy; make invalid; nullify
maculated	spotted; stained; CF. immaculate
capricious	unpredictable; fickle
tantrum	fit of bad temper; fit of petulance; caprice; Ex. The child went into tantrums.
disquietude	uneasiness; anxiety; V. disquiet: make anxious
dyslexia	word blindness; learning disorder marked by impairment of the ability to read
rhapsodize	speak or write in an exaggeratedly enthusiastic manner; Ex. rhapsodize over the beauty of the scenery
frantic	wild; distraught as from fear or worry; Ex. frantic with fear
stipend	pay for services
skulk	move furtively and secretly; Ex. He skulked through the less fashionable sections of the city.
lackluster	lacking luster(shine; gloss); dull
incoherent	unintelligible; muddled; unable to express one's thoughts in an orderly manner; illogical; lacking cohesion; not coherent
credulity	belief on slight evidence; gullibility; naivet\'e; ADJ. credulous
ichthyology	 study of fish; CF. ichthyo-: fish
alimony	payments made regularly to an ex-spouse after divorce
expiate	make amends for (a sin)
arcane	esoteric; secret; mysterious; known only to the initiated; Ex. arcane ritual; Ex. arcane process closed to the uninitiated listener
tenant	one that pays rent to use property owned by another
emanate	issue forth; come out
determinate	having a fixed order of procedure; precisely defined; invariable; fixed; conclusive; final
flick	light stroke as with a whip; V: move with a light quick blow; strike with a light quick blow (as from a whip); Ex. flick the switch
sour	having a sharp or acid taste; acid; tart; bad-tempered; V.
slacken	slow up; loosen; make or become slack
pell-mell	in confusion; disorderly; Ex. dash pell-mell
sordid	filthy; foul; base; vile; Ex. sordid bed/story
resurge	rise again; flow to and fro; N. resurgence; ADJ. resurgent: (of ideas or beliefs) experiencing revival; surging again
encipher	encode; convert a message into code; put into cipher
rubric	title or heading (in red print); directions for religious ceremony; protocol
adage	wise saying; proverb
exodus	departure (of a large number of people)
skinflint	miser; stingy person
creed	system of religious or ethical belief
warranty	guarantee; assurance by seller
expunge	cancel; remove a word or name (from a book or list); erase
substantiate	support (a claim) with evidence; establish with evidence; verify
brevity	conciseness; shortness of duration
belated	delayed
immune	resistant to; free or exempt from; N. immunity
tribute	tax levied by a ruler; payment made by one nation to another in acknowledgment of submission; mark of respect (such as praise or gift); Ex. pay tribute to
bureaucracy	overregulated administrative system marked by red tape; ADJ. bureaucratic
chronicle	report; record (in chronological order)
chaotic	in utter disorder
articulate	effective; distinct; expressing ideas clearly; having clear sounds; having joints; Ex. articulate speech; V: express thoughts and feeling clearly; pronounce clearly; unite by joints
equinox	period of equal days and nights; the beginning of spring and autumn; Ex. vernal/autumnal equinox; ADJ. equinoctial
dowry	money or property brought by a bride to her husband at marriage
slander	defamation; utterance of false and malicious statements; V. ADJ. slanderous
rancor	long-lasting hatred; bitterness; Ex. negotiation without rancor; ADJ. rancorous
spoof	parody
personable	attractive (in personality or appearance)
abash	embarrass
seclusion	isolation; solitude; V. seclude: set apart from others; isolate
azure	sky blue
paean	song of praise or joy; Ex. paeans celebrating the victory
gnarled	twisted
recite	repeat aloud (something learned); describe; Ex. recite his complaints; N. recitation
amazon	female warrior
veto	vested power to reject a bill; exercise of this right; V: prevent or forbid by exercising the power of veto
nib	beak(bill); pen point
acerbity	bitterness of speech and temper; ADJ. acerbic: bitter; acrid (in taste, manner, or tone)
bravado	swagger; assumed air of defiance; false show of bravery
paraphernalia	equipment; odds and ends used in a particular activity; personal belongings; Ex. photographic paraphernalia; CF. married woman's property exclusive of her dowry
malfeasance	wrongdoing; misconduct (by a public official)
insightful	discerning; perceptive
appropriate	acquire; take possession of for one's own use without permission; set aside for a particular purpose; allocate; CF. misappropriate
execrate	curse; express abhorrence for; detest
slap	hit quickly with the flat part of the hand; N. CF. smack
raiment	clothing; garments; Ex. I have no raiment fit to wear.
bullion	gold and silver in the form of bars
whimsical	capricious; fanciful; amusingly strange
practicable	feasible
array	marshal; draw up in order; arrange in order; clothe splendidly; adorn; N: fine clothes; ordered group; Ex. in battle array
mannerism	distinctive behavioral trait; affected style in art (according to a set of styles)
witless	lacking intelligence or wit; foolish; idiotic
defile	pollute; make filthy or dirty; corrupt morally; profane; desecrate; N: narrow passage or gorge through mountains
precipice	cliff; dangerous position; Ex. on the edge of the precipice
meteoric	like a meteor; swift; momentarily brilliant; Ex. meteoric rise to fame; N. meteor
wastrel	waster; profligate
shambles	(place or scene of) complete disorder or ruin; wreck; mess; Ex. After the hurricane, the coast was a shambles.
shuffle	mix together; jumble; move (something) from one place to another; slide (the feet) along the ground while walking; Ex. shuffle papers from one pile to another; N.
shard	fragment generally of broken pottery (glass, clay bowl, or cup)
exhale	breathe out; OP. inhale
monochrome	painting in only one color; ADJ.
resolution	determination; resoluteness; ADJ. resolute: firm or determined in purpose
pass_off	present falsely; represent falsely to be
apposite	appropriate; fitting
turpitude	depravity; baseness; Ex. moral turpitude
ruddy	reddish; (of the face) reddish and healthy-looking
concave	hollow; curved inwards; OP. convex
plagiarize	steal another's ideas or writings and pass them off as one's own; Ex. ideas plagiarized from my article; N. plagiarism; CF. kidnap
lunatic	insane; Ex. lunatic asylum
misanthrope	one who hates mankind; misanthropist
pinion	restrain or immobilize by binding the wings or legs; N: bird's wing
precocious	advanced in development; N. precocity
squeamish	easily shocked or sickened by unpleasant things; fastidious; Ex. A nurse should not be squeamish.
synoptic	providing a general overview; summary; N. synopsis
slake	satisfy (thirst); quench; sate
bestow	confer
bevy	large group; Ex. a bevy of starlets
marshal	put in order; guide ceremoniously to the correct place; Ex. marshal the children into the museum; N: military officer; official
incinerate	burn to ashes
languid	lacking energy or vitality; weary; sluggish; listless
diaphanous	sheer; transparent
caustic	burning; corrosive; able to burn by chemical action; sarcastically biting; (of remarks) intended to hurt; bitter; harmful; OP. harmless
suffocate	die or kill from lack of air; suppress
chaperon	older person who accompanies and supervises a young unmarried woman
predilection	preference; partiality
bemoan	lament; moan for; express sorrow or disapproval of
dally	trifle with; toy with; treat without the necessary seriousness; procrastinate; waste time
spat	squabble; minor dispute; minor quarrel
acrid	bitter (to the taste or smell); sharp; bitterly pungent
ensconce	settle comfortably; place comfortably (in a secure place)
zenith	point directly overhead in the sky; summit; acme; highest point
maternal	motherly; N. maternity: motherhood
commonwealth	nation governed by the people; republic; people of a nation
regeneration	spiritual rebirth; Ex. regeneration of the prisoners; V. regenerate: give or obtain new life; reform spiritually
sinewy	(of meat) tough; strong and firm; muscular; N. sinew: tendon; strong cord connecting a muscle to a bone
Machiavellian	crafty; double-dealing; of the political doctrine of Machiavelli, which holds that craft and deceit are justified in pursuing political power
beatitude	blessedness; state of great happiness
wag	shake repeatedly from side to side; Ex. The dog wagged its tail; N: humorous person; wit
lumber	move heavily or clumsily; Ex. The bear lumbered through the woods; N: timber
sagacious	wise; perceptive; shrewd; having insight; N. sagacity
grate	make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; shred by rubbing against a rough surface; Ex. grated cheese N: framework of metal bars to hold fuel in a fireplace
extemporaneous	not planned; impromptu; extempore
gorge	stuff oneself (with food); glut; CF. gorgeous: dazzlingly beautiful
skeptic	sceptic; doubter; person who suspends judgment until he has examined the evidence supporting a point of view; ADJ. skeptical; N. skepticism; scepticism
stamp	step on heavily (so as to crush or extinguish); put an end to; imprint or impress with a mark, design, or seal; shape with a die; characterize; Ex. machine stamping out car bodies; Ex. newspaper stamping him as a liar; N. stamping; implement us
quagmire	bog; marsh; soft, wet, boggy land; predicament; complex or dangerous situation from which it is difficult to free oneself
solitude	state of being alone; seclusion; ADJ. solitary: existing or living alone (esp. by choice); remote or secluded; single; sole; Ex. solitary life/inn; Ex. no solitary piece of proof
potent	powerful; convincing; persuasive; greatly influential
vendor	seller
perverse	purposely continuing to do something wrong; stubbornly wrongheaded; perverted; directed away from what is right; wicked and unacceptable; Ex. perverse satisfaction; Ex. Hannibal Lecter in a perverse mood; N. perversity
dapper	neat and trim (in appearance); (of small men) neat in appearance and quick in movements; neat; spry
demoniac(demoniacal)	fiendish; cruel; N. demon: evil supernatural being; devil
fanfare	call by bugles or trumpets; showy display; spectacular public display
mammal	vertebrate animal whose female suckles its young
psychosomatic	of the influence of the mind on the body (esp. with respect to disease)
checkered(chequered)	marked by great changes in fortune; with many changes of fortuene; CF. checked: having a pattern of squares
incisive	(appreciatively) cutting; sharp; Ex. incisive remarks; V. incise: make a cut into
ornithologist	scientific student of birds; N. ornithology: scientific study of birds
discriminate	distinguish; make distinctions on the basis of preference
barb	sharp projection from fishhook, arrow, or other object; openly cutting remark
surmise	guess; N.
elated	filled with excited joy and pride; overjoyed; in high spirits; joyful and proud; Ex. elated crowd; V. elate; N. elation
remission	temporary moderation (of disease symptoms); remitting of a debt or punishment; cancelation of a debt; pardon; Ex. The disease went into remission; Ex. Christians pray for the remission of sins.
prognosis	forecasted course of a disease; prediction; CF. prognostic
chisel	swindle or cheat; N: wedgelike tool for cutting
overbearing	bossy; domineering and arrogant; decisively important; Ex. overbearing manner/importance; V. overbear: dominate
impregnable	invulnerable; impossible to capture or enter by force; Ex. impregnable fort/argument; CF. take
impair	injure; hurt; damage
premonitory	serving to warn
summation	act of finding the total; summing-up; summary (esp. one given by the judge at the end of a trial)
stolid	dull; impassive; showing little emotion when strong feelings are expected
lounge	stand, sit, or lie in a lazy, relaxed way
onus	burden; responsibility
alluvial	pertaining to soil deposits left by running water
rotundity	roundness; sonorousness of speech
pluck	courage; V: pull off or out; pull out the hair or feathers of; ADJ. plucky: courageous; brave
vilify	slander; speak evil of; N. vilification
aspirant	seeker after position or status
conformity	harmony; agreement with established rules or customs; similarity; Ex. behave in conformity with; V. conform: be similar; act in agreement; comply; Ex. conform to the rule; CF. conformance
apparition	ghost; phantom
churlish	boorish; rude; N. churl: boor; yahoo
meticulous	excessively careful (with great attention to detail); painstaking; scrupulous
apotheosis	elevation to godhood; an ideal example of something
arraign	charge in court; indict
genteel	well-bred; elegant; striving to convey an appearance of refinement; Ex. genteel poverty
conclave	private secret meeting
recurrent	occurring again and again
synthetic	not natural; artificial; resulting from synthesis; Ex. synthetic fiber; N.
vogue	popular fashion; Ex. Jeans became the vogue.
censorious	severely critical
crust	hard outer covering (as of earth or snow)
swear	vow; promise; use profane oaths; use offensive words
germinal	pertaining to a germ; creative; Ex. germinal idea
accretion	growth or increase in size by gradual addition; growth; increase; increase by natural growth; Ex. towers and other accretions of the castle; V. accrete
polemic	attack or defense of an opinion; controversy or refutation; argument in support of point of view; N. polemics: art of debate or controversy
sanctuary	place of refuge; shelter; shrine; holy place; Ex. The outlaw was granted sanctuary in the church.
warrant	justification; written order that serves as authorization (esp. a judicial writ); Ex. search/death warrant; V: justify; guarantee
motley	multi-colored (as of a garment worn by a jester); mixed; heterogeneous; CF. jester: one who jests (as a paid fool at medieval courts)
ineluctable	irresistible; not to be escaped; unavoidable
irreproachable	beyond reproach; blameless; impeccable; Ex. irreproachable conduct
scorch	sear; N.
clandestine	secret
steep	soak; saturate; Ex. steep the fabric in the dye bath; ADJ: precipitous
civil	having to do with citizens; not military or religious; courteous and polite; Ex. married in a civil ceremony; Ex. civil strife/disorder/law; N. civility; CF. civic
allure	entice; attract; tempt
immutable	unchangeable
acme	peak; pinnacle; highest point
reprimand	reprove severely; rebuke; N.
interstice	narrow space between things
vicar	parish priest; representative
luxuriant	abundant; growing healthily and in large amounts; excessively ornate; rich and splendid; fertile; Ex. luxuriant forests/prose; CF. luxurious, luxuriate
abeyance	suspended action
evocative	tending to call up (emotions, memories)
breach	breaking of contract or duty; fissure or gap; opening; V.
collate	examine and compare in order to verify authenticity; arrange in order (the sheets of a book before they are bound)
buffoonery	clowning
misapprehension	error; misunderstanding; V. misapprehend
viand	food; CF. live
impecunious	without money
cession	yielding to another; ceding
tonsure	shaving of the head especially by person entering religious orders; V.
jug	pitcher; container for holding liquids
discombobulated	discomposed; confused
bargain	agreement between two groups or people; something for sale at a price advantageous to the buyer; V: negotiate; trade; Ex. bargaining power
adept	expert at; very skilled
bulwark	strong wall built for defense; earthwork or other strong defense; person who defends
sacrilegious	desecrating; profane; N. sacrilege: desecration, misuse, or theft of something sacred
inhibited	(of a person) unable to express what one really feels
runic	mysterious; set down in an ancient alphabet; N. rune: one of the letters of an alphabet used by ancient Germanic peoples (cut on stone or wood); magic charm
jubilation	rejoicing; great joy
frock	long loose garment (worn by monks)
draw	choosing of a lot or card
outskirts	fringes; outer borders (as of a city); Ex. outskirts of Boston
favoritism	display of partiality toward a favored person
caste	one of the hereditary classes in Hindu society; social stratification; prestige
conciliatory	reconciling; soothing; V. conciliate: reconcile; soothe; win the friendly feelings (by removing anger)
garrulous	loquacious; wordy; talkative; N. garrulity
simulate	feign; imitate
augury	omen; prophecy; sign of coming events; V. augur: predict; foretell; be a sign of (something in future)
secession	withdrawal; V. secede: withdraw formally from membership
frond	fern leaf; palm or banana leaf
invincible	unconquerable
colander	utensil with perforated bottom used for straining
galaxy	large isolated system of stars, such as the Milky Way; collection of brilliant personalities
buccaneer	pirate
gavel	hammerlike tool; mallet(wooden hammer) used by a presiding officer or an auctioneer; V.
waggish	humorous; mischievous; tricky
natation	swimming
pulsate	throb; beat regularly; vibrate regularly
simian	monkeylike; N: ape or monkey
imbalance	lack of balance or symmetry; disproportion
browse	graze; feed on growing grass; skim or glance at casually
bizarre	fantastic; violently contrasting; noticeably odd; strikingly unconventional
draft	first rough form; conscription; draught; V: make a draft of; conscript
turmoil	extreme confusion; great commotion and confusion; Ex. throw the country into turmoil
resurrect	revive
comatose	in a coma; extremely sleepy
ram	male sheep; V. strike or drive against with a heavy impact
obtuse	blunt; not sharp; stupid; slow in understanding
revoke	cancel; retract; CF. irrevocable
kismet	fate; destiny; Ex. Kismet is the Arabic word for fate.
contrite	penitent; repentant; N. contrition
maleficient	doing evil; N. maleficience
ennui	boredom; listlessness and dissatisfaction resulting from lack of interest; CF. annoy
lush	(of a plant or grass) growing very well
whit	small amount; smallest speck; Ex. not a whit of
heinous	atrocious; wicked; hatefully bad; Ex. heinous crime
rift	narrow opening in a large mass; break in a friendly relation; Ex. through a rift in the clouds; OP. reconcilation
rabies	disease passed on by the bite of an infected animal (causing madness and death)
slag	glassy residue from smelting metal; dross; waste matter
memento	token; reminder of the past; keepsake; Ex. memento of your visit
acrimonious	stinging; caustic; bitter in words or manner; N. acrimony: bitter ill-natured animosity in speech or behavior
score	number of points; written form of a musical composition; reason; group of 20; notch or incision; Ex. full/vocal score; Ex. Don't worry on that score; V: mark with lines or notches; Ex. score the paper to make it easy to fold
consonance	harmony; agreement
slack	moving slowly; sluggish; inactive; (of a rope) loose; negligent; lax; Ex. slack season; Ex. slack in one's work; N. V.
monogram	design composed of one or more initials of a name; V.
virulent	(of a disease or poison) extremely harmful or poisonous; (of a feeling) hostile; bitter; N. virulence; CF. virus; CF. venom
mercenary	motivated solely by money or gain; N.
temper	moderate; make less severe; tone down or restrain; toughen (steel) as by alternate heating and cooling
guy	cable or chain attached to something that needs to be braced or steadied; CF. guide
exchequer	treasury; Ex. Chancellor of the exchequer
collateral	security given for loan; ADJ: secondary; descended from the same person but through different sons or daughters
venue	location; place (of a crime, trial, gathering, etc.); CF. come
macabre	 gruesome; grisly; ghastly; CF. of death
exude	flow out slowly; discharge (gradually); give forth; N. exudation
diminution	lessening; reduction in size; V. diminish
chagrin	annoyance and disappointment; vexation (caused by humiliation or injured pride)
hedonist	one who believes that pleasure is the sole aim in life; CF. hedonism: practice of living one's life purely for pleasure
somatic	pertaining to the body; bodily; physical
deify	turn into a god; make a god of; idolize; Ex. Kings were deified; CF. deity
qualify	reach a necessary standard; limit the meaning of something stated
horticultural	pertaining to cultivation of gardens; N. horticulture: science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, or ornamental plants; CF. agriculture: science or art of farming or growing crops
bitter	having a sharp biting taste; ?; causing sharp pain to the body or mind; filled with resentment, disappointment, or other unpleasant feelings; Ex. bitter wind/sorrow/tears
comport	bear one's self; behave; Ex. comport oneself; N. comportment
typhoon	tropical hurricane or cyclone
tyro	beginner; novice
dishonor	disgrace; N. ADJ. dishonorable
precedent	preceding (in time, rank, etc.)
modicum	limited quantity; small amount; Ex. He does not have a modicum of sense; CF. moderate
virtuoso	highly skilled artist (esp. in music); Ex. piano virtuoso
tardy	slow; sluggish; not on time; late; Ex. tardy arrival
seedy	run-down; decrepit; disreputable; having many seeds; Ex. seedy downtown hotel
vindictive	disposed to revenge; vengeful; out for revenge; spiteful; intended to cause harm; malicious; Ex. vindictive streak
corpus	collection (of writings or information); Ex. the corpus of Shakespear's works; Cf. corpse
recapitulate	summarize
devise	think up; invent; plan; bequeath; N: bequest
dwindle	shrink; reduce gradually
eulogy	expression of praise, often on the occasion of someone's death; V. eulogize
calamity	disaster; misery
authenticate	prove genuine
incandescent	strikingly bright; shining with intense heat; emitting visible light when heated; Ex. incandescent light bulb; CF. candle
ameliorate	improve
rent	tear made by rending; rip; split
rigor	severity; Ex. rigors of the Russian winter
enamored	in love; Ex. enamored of his own beauty; V. enamor: inspire with love
rationale	fundamental reason or principle (on which a system or principle is based); fundamental reason or justification; grounds for an action
probity	uprightness; honesty; incorruptibility
dismember	cut into small parts; cut (a body) apart limb from limb
mange	skin disease (esp. of domestic animals) marked by loss of hair
prop	support placed under or against something; V.
clique	small exclusive group of people
haphazard	random; by chance; happening in an unplanned manner; Ex. haphazard growth of the town
proviso	stipulation; condition in an agreement; provision
lucrative	profitable; producing wealth
visage	face; appearance
unerringly	infallibly; ADJ. unerring: making no mistakes
stock	standard; kept regularly in stock or supply; typical; routine; common; Ex. stock sizes of paper; Ex. stock excuse/character; N: goods for sale in a shop; OP. unique
horde	crowd; swarm
tarantula	venomous spider
decipher	decode; CF. indecipherable
detrimental	harmful; damaging; N. detriment
coalesce	combine; fuse; N. coalescence
pharisaical	pertaining to the Pharisees, who paid scrupulous attention to tradition; self-righteous; hypocritical
spin	rotate swiftly; make (thread) by twisting (cotton, wool, etc.); N.
finicky	too particular; fussy; difficult to please; too concerned with unimportant details or quality; Ex. finicky about her food
interminable	endless
privy	secret; hidden; not public; made a participant in something secret; Ex. privy chamber government; Ex. be privy to a discussion; CF. private
sidetrack	switch (a railroad car) to a siding; divert from a main issue; N. CF. siding: short section of railroad track connected by switches with a main track
afterlife	life after death; later part of one's life
itinerary	plan of a trip; record of a trip
truculence	aggressiveness; ferocity; ADJ. truculent: aggressive; pugnacious; fierce
integrity	honesty; uprightness; wholeness; state of being whole and undivided; completeness
predispose	give an inclination toward (in advance); make susceptible to; Ex. predispose people to certain cancer; N. predisposition
glutton	someone who eats too much; ADJ. gluttonous: given to gluttony; greedy; CF. gluttony: habit of eating too much
prudent	cautious; careful; prudential
pious	devout; religious; N. piety
bully	one who is habitually cruel to weaker people; V.
selective	careful in choosing; having an effect only on certain things; not general; Ex. eclectic weed killer
bout	match; short period of great activity; Ex. wrestling bout; bout of drinking/flu
mountebank	charlatan; boastful pretender
except	exclude; N. exception: objection; exclusion; ADJ. exceptional: unusual; of unusually high quality
papyrus	ancient paper made from stem of papyrus plant
labyrinth	maze
rigid	hard and unbending; stiff and unyielding; fixed in behavior or views; strict; rigorous; Ex. rigid rule
zephyr	gentle breeze; west wind
consonant	harmonious; in agreement; N.
synthesis	combining parts or separate things into a whole; the whole so formed; PL. syntheses; V. synthesize
divulge	reveal
satire	form of literature in which irony, sarcasm, and ridicule are employed to attack human vice and folly
ambidextrous	capable of using either hand with equal ease
galvanize	stimulate or shock by an electric current; stimulate by shock; shock into action; stir up; coat with rust-resistant zinc by using electricity
expatiate	talk at length; speak or write in detail
chicanery	trickery; deception
convert	one who has adopted a different religion or opinion; V: change into another form; (persuade to) adopt a particular religion or belief
irrefutable	indisputable; incontrovertible; undeniable
recast	reconstruct (a sentence, story, statue, etc.); fashion again
knoll	little round hill; hillock
maverick	rebel; nonconformist (in a group)
monarchy	government under a single ruler
infirmity	weakness
charlatan	quack; pretender to knowledge (esp. in medicine)
shift	change position or place; exchange (one thing) for another; change in direction or position; Ex. shift the stolen goods; N. group of workers which takes turns with other groups; working period of such a group
larder	pantry; place where food is kept
soothsayer	one who foretells the future
disquisition	formal systematic inquiry; explanation of the results of a formal inquiry; long formal speech or written report
axiom	self-evident truth requiring no proof
superannuated	retired or disqualified because of age; outmoded; obsolete
wrench	twist; pull; strain; Ex. He wrenched the gun out of her hands.
elevation	elevated position; altitude; height; flat upright side of a building; angle made by pointing a gun; Ex. The elevation of her style is much admired; Ex. front elevation of the house
coax	persuade by flattery
multiplicity	state of being numerous or multiple; large number; Ex. multiplicity of details; ADJ. multiple: of more than one element
simper	smirk; smile in a silly way; smile affectedly
disputatious	argumentative; fond of argument
purport	intention; purpose; meaning; V: claim; profess; Ex. order which purports to be signed by the general
jovial	good-natured; merry; cheerful
annuity	yearly allowance
delete	erase; strike out
opiate	medicine to induce sleep or deaden pain; something that relieves emotions or causes inaction; sleep-producing drug containing opium
scourge	lash; whip (formerly used for punishment); source of severe punishment; V: whip; afflict
vigil	keeping watch (during normal sleeping hours); Ex. all-night vigil
refraction	bending of a ray of light
soluble	able to be dissolved in a liquid; able to be worked out or solved
cross	bad-tempered; showing ill-humor; angry
Advent	arrival
discomfit	frustrate; put to rout; defeat; disconcert; embarrass; perturb
pinnace	small boat
resumption	taking up again; recommencement; V. resume: begin or take up again; take or occupy again; Ex. Kindly resume your seats.
repertoire	list of works of music, drama, etc., a performer is prepared to present; CF. repertory
cleft	N: split
benign	kindly; favorable; not malignant (disease); Ex. benign tumor
obeisance	bow (to show respect and obedience)
irreverence	lack of proper respect or reverence; ADJ. irreverent
prosperity	good fortune and financial success; physical well-being
gossamer	sheer; very light; like cobwebs; N: soft and sheer fabric; cobweb
benefactor	gift giver; patron; person who does good or who gives money for a good purpose
extol	praise very highly; glorify
blasphemy	irreverence; sacrilege; cursing; bad language about God or holy things; V. blasphem; ADJ. blasphemous; CF. sacrilege
rip	tear or be torn quickly and violently; Ex. The sail ripped under the force of the wind; N.
pediatrician	physician specializing in children's diseases; N. pediatrics
dire	warning of disaster; disastrous; (of needs and dangers) very great; urgent; Ex. dire prediction/need of food
mongrel	plant or animal (esp. a dog) of mixed breed; ADJ.
galvanic	of the production of electricity by the action of an acid on a metal; having the effect of an electric shock; Ex. galvanic cell; galvanic effect; CF. Luigi Galvani
hem	surround tightly so that movement is impossible; Ex. hem in; N.
unaccountable	unexplicable; impossible to account for; unreasonable or mysterious
annihilate	destroy
impinge	infringe; encroach; influence; touch; collide with; Ex. The effects are impinging on every aspect of our lives.
elaboration	addition of details; intricacy
jetsam	things thrown from a ship (to lighten the ship)
minatory	menacing; threatening
reaper	one who harvests grain; Ex. the Grim Reaper; V. reap: cut and gather (crop); harvest a crop
entrance	put under a spell(condition caused by magical power); carry away(fill with strong feeling) with emotion; put into a trance; fill with delight
chorus	phrase repeated throughout a song or poem
transpose	reverse the order or position of
cryptic	mysterious; hidden; secret
incidental	not essential; minor; N: something incidental
minuscule(miniscule)	extremely small
sectarian	of a sect; narrow-minded; parochial; N: member of a sect; narrow-minded person
tan	convert (hide) into leather; make brown by exposure to the sun
primary	first in rank or importance; principal; earliest in time; Ex. primary stages; N. CF. first
cornice	projecting molding on building (usually above columns or pillars);
tyranny	oppression; cruel government; ADJ. tyrannical: of a tyrant or tyranny; despotic; V. tyrannize: treat tyrannically; oppress
takeoff	burlesque; act of leaving the ground
clipper	sailing vessel built for great speed
somber	dark; gloomy; melancholy; depressing; CF. shadow
sundry	miscellaneous; various; several; N. sundries: small miscellaneous items
sluice	artificial channel for directing or controlling the flow of water (with a gate to regulate the flow)
imbecility	weakness of mind; state of being an imbecile; N. imbecile: stupid person; fool
exacting	extremely demanding; Ex. exacting standard of safety
impertinent	insolent; rude; not pertinent; N. impertinence
viper	poisonous snake
remorse	deep regret for wrongdoing; guilt; self-reproach
cohere	stick together
encompass	surround; include; Ex. His activities encompass publishing and computers.
hireling	one who serves for hire (usually used contemptuously); one who works solely for compensation; Ex. hireling politician
itinerant	wandering; traveling from place to place (to perform work); Ex. itinerant preacher
lexicographer	compiler of a dictionary; CF. lexicography: work of compiling a dictionary
seasonal	of a particular season; Ex. seasonal rise in employment
phenomena	observable facts; subjects of scientific investigation; SG. phenomenon: observable fact; very unusual person, thing, or event; marvel; wonder; CF. phenomenons; ADJ. phenomenal: very unusual; extraordinary; of a phenomenon; Ex. phenomenal strength
counterpart	thing that completes another; things very much alike; thing that has the same purpose in a different system
philology	study of language or words
unwieldy	awkward (to carry or move); cumbersome; unmanageable
repine	fret; complain; be annoyed; Ex. repine over the undone work
ruminant	animal that ruminates; ADJ.
exult	rejoice
effulgent	shining brightly; brilliant
agape	openmouthed
animosity	active enmity
sturdy	strong and firm (in the body)
consistency	absence of contradictions; uniformity; degree of thickness or firmness; Ex. consistency of thick cream; CF. viscous
unfledged	immature; not having the feathers necessary to fly; CF. fledgling
geniality	cheerfulness; kindliness; sympathy; ADJ. genial: cheerful and good-tempered
acuity	sharpness (of mind or senses of sight or hearing)
forswear	renounce under oath; abandon; make a solemn promise to give up; CF. abjure
problematic	causing a problem; open to doubt; doubtful; unsettled; questionable; Ex. Whether the arena will ever be completed is problematic.
figure	written symbols; number; amount represented in numbers; outline or silhouette of a thing or human body; person (well-known); impression; diagram; pattern; group in a dance; Ex. figure of speech; V. calculate with numbers; adorn with figures; app
pachyderm	 thick-skinned animal
idyll(idyl)	short poem idealizing rural life; simple happy period of life (in the country); scene from such a time; Ex. idyll of two young lovers
menace	threat; V: threaten
amenable	obedient; compliant; readily managed; responsive; willing to be led; answerable or accountable legally; responsible; able to be tested by; Ex. amenable to sensible suggestions; Ex. He is very amenable; Ex. amenable to the usual tests
base	contemptible; morally bad; inferior in value or quality; Ex. base motives/conduct; Ex. base metal such as iron
harbor	give protection (by giving food and shelter); provide a refuge for; hide; keep in mind (thoughts or feelings); Ex. harbor a grudge/criminal; N: place of shelter; refuge
hide	skin of an animal
courier	messenger
reparation	compensation (for loss or wrong); amends; Ex. make reparation for the damage; CF. repair
guileless	without deceit
lament	grieve; express sorrow; N. lamentation
ambulatory	able to walk
duplicity	double-dealing; hypocrisy; being dishonest and deceitful; ADJ. duplicitous
substantive	substantial; essential; pertaining to the substance; substantial; considerable; Ex. substantive issues
hereafter	life after death
ewe	female sheep
reprehensible	deserving blame; blameworthy; V. reprehend: blame
juxtapose	place side by side; CF. next
allay	calm; pacify
chaplain	clergyman attached to a chapel
concerted	mutually agreed on; done together by agreement; Ex. concerted effort; CF. in concert: working together
brocade	rich, figured(patterned) fabric
attentive	alert and watchful; listening carefully; paying attention; considerate; thoughtful; politely helpful; Ex. attentive audience; Ex. He was attentive to the old lady; N. attentions: act of courtesy and consideration
tread	walk; trample; N: grooved face of a tire; horizontal part of a step
actuate	motivate; activate; cause to act
stupefy	stun; make numb (as with a drug); amaze
gesticulation	motion; gesture; V. gesticulate: make gestures (while speaking)
secular	worldly; not pertaining to church matters or religion; temporal
garner	gather; store up; amass
confidential	spoken or written in secret; trusted with private matters; Ex. confidential secretary
lucre	money; profit; Ex. filthy lucre
congenial	pleasant; friendly; in agreement with one's tastes and nature; Ex. congenial weather
chivalrous	courteous; faithful; brave; N. chivalry
gourmand	epicure; person who takes excessive pleasure in food and drink
granary	storehouse for grain
methodical	systematic; N. method: systematic method of procedure
bellicose	warlike
leonine	like a lion
abut	border upon; adjoin
sybarite	lover of luxury; person devoted to pleasure and luxury; CF. Sybaris: an ancient Greek city in Italy
temporize	gain time as by postponing an action; avoid committing oneself
willful	wilful; intentional; headstrong
repress	hold back (the natural expression of); restrain; crush; oppress; Ex. repressed child; Ex. repress a laugh/rebellion
frail	weak; N. frailty
loath	reluctant; unwilling; disinclined; Ex. Romeo and Juliet were both loath for him to go.
glossy	smooth and shining; N. gloss: shiny brightness on a surface; superficially attractive appearance; Ex. gloss of good manners
extrovert	person interested mostly in external objects and actions
straggle	stray or fall behind (a main group); spread out in a scattered group; Ex. straggling marathon racer; Ex. straggling branch
swell	long wave of water that moves continuously without breaking; V.
bogus	counterfeit; not authentic; intentionally false; Ex. bogus interview
rapacious	voracious; ravenous; taking everything one can; excessively grasping; plundering; subsisting on live prey; Ex. rapacious birds
verisimilar	having the appearance of truth or reality; probable or likely to be true; plausible
compassion	sympathy for the suffering of others; ADJ. compassionate
offhand	casual; done without prior thought or preparation
tempestuous	stormy; violent; impassioned; N. tempest: violent storm
nexus	connection
elastic	able to spring back into shape; quick to recover (as from disappointment); able to adapt to change; Ex. elastic plans; N: elastic material
debut	d\'ebut; first public appearance; formal presentation of a young woman to society
infraction	violation (of a rule or regulation); breach
vagrant	homeless wanderer
hazard	venture; put in danger; risk; Ex. hazard a guess; N: possible source of danger
ponderous	having great weight; weighty; unwieldy; lacking lightness; dull; Ex. ponderous body/style of writing
preeminent	outstanding; superior
proximity	nearness; ADJ. proximate
thesis	opinion put forward and supported by reasoned arguments
fictitious	imaginary; non-existent; purposely invented to deceive; untrue; Ex. fictitious name/boyfriend; CF. fictional
repeal	revoke; annul
effigy	dummy; likeness of a person made of wood, paper, or stone; Ex. burn an effigy of the President
flicker	burn unsteadily or fitfully; move waveringly; N: flickering movement or light; brief sensation; Ex. flicker of excitement
plebiscite	direct vote by the entire electorate (on an important issue)
comprehensive	broad; including a lot or everything; thorough; inclusive
cauterize	burn (a wound or snakebite, etc.) with hot iron or caustic substance to stop bleeding and prevent infection
sleigh	large vehicle drawn by a horse over snow or ice
hindrance	block; obstacle; V. hinder
reckon	count; calculate; regard as; think; suppose
executioner	person administering capital punishment
forfeit	something surrendered as punishment for a crime or breach of contract; V: lose as a forfeit; N. forfeiture
weather	pass safely through (a storm or difficult period); endure the effects of weather or other forces
appreciate	be thankful for; increase in worth; be thoroughly conscious of; ADJ. appreciable: enough to be felt; Ex. appreciable difference
physiological	pertaining to the science of the function of living organisms; N. physiology
lustrous	shining; brilliant; Ex. lustrous hair
disparage	belittle
glutinous	sticky; viscous; gluey
indigence	poverty
isthmus	narrow neck of land connecting two larger bodies of land
ferret	drive or hunt out of hiding; hunt with ferrets; drive out (as from a hiding place); expel; uncover or discover by searching; Ex. ferret out the secret; N. small fierce animal which catches rats and rabbits by going into their holes
gratify	please; satisfy; Ex. gratify a desire
orgy	wild drunken revelry; unrestrained indulgence in an activity; Ex. orgy of shopping
revile	attack with abusive language; vilify(slander)
vampire	ghostly being that sucks the blood of the living
demented	insane
outwit	outsmart; defeat by behaving more cleverly
reproach	blame (not angrily but sadly); express disapproval or disappointment; N. ADJ. reproachful
bludgeon	club; heavy-headed weapon; V.
overture	musical introduction to a long musical piece; first offer or proposal (to begin talks in the hope of reaching an agreement); Ex. overtures for peace
arsenal	storage place for military equipment
tarnish	make or become dull or discolored; N.
gentry	people of standing(rank or position); people of good family or high social position; class of people just below nobility
calligraphy	beautiful writing; excellent penmanship
winsome	charming (in a childlike way); agreeable; gracious; engaging
dappled	spotted
cerebral	pertaining to the brain or intellect; intellectual rather than emotional; CF. cerebrum
misadventure	mischance; ill luck; Ex. death by misadventure
hibernate	sleep throughout the winter; N. hibernation
vitriolic	causing sharp pain to the mind; caustic; corrosive; sarcastic; of vitriol; N. vitriol: sulphuric acid (which burns flesh deeply); bitterly abusive expression; caustic expression; CF. glass
purge	remove or get rid of something or someone unwanted; eliminate; free from blame or guilt; cleanse or purify (esp. of sin, guilt, or defilement); N.
oracular	of an oracle; prophetic; uttered as if with divine authority; mysterious or ambiguous; hard to understand; N. oracle: wiser person; prophecy made by an oracle
quorum	minimal number of members necessary to conduct a meeting
scuffle	struggle confusedly; move off in a confused hurry; N. CF. scuffling twins ?
decrepitude	state of collapse or weakness caused by illness or old age
protract	prolong; lengthen in time; draw out
covetous	avaricious; desirous of (someone else's possessions); V. covet: desire eagerly (someone else's possessions)
adulation	flattery; admiration that is more than is necessary or deserved
holocaust	destruction by fire; CF. burnt whole; CF. Holocaust
subordinate	occupying a lower rank; inferior; submissive; N. V: put in a lower rank or class
amputate	cut off part of body; prune (a limb)
imprecation	curse; swearword
sedate	composed (with no excitement); grave; V: administer a sedative to; CF. sedative
hoodwink	deceive; delude
melee	fight
tenancy	possession of land or building by rent; period of a tenant's occupancy
giddy	light-hearted; not serious; frivolous; dizzy; causing dizziness; Ex. giddy youth; Ex. giddy climb/height
indignity	treatment or situation that causes shame or loss of dignity, respect; offensive or insulting treatment; humiliating or degrading treatment; Ex. I suffered the indignity of having to say that in front of them.
strew	spread randomly; sprinkle; scatter; Ex. flower girl strewing rose petals
orthography	correct spelling; CF. ortho-: straight; correct; Ex. orthodontics
ken	range of knowledge; Ex. beyond one's ken
fret	be annoyed or vexed; Ex. fret over your poor grades; N: irritation of mind; ADJ. fretful
appall	dismay; shock deeply
prey	target of a hunt; victim; V: hunt and eat as prey; victimize; Ex. Cats prey on mice.
finish	surface texture; completeness of execution
derivative	unoriginal; obtained from another source; Ex. derivative prose style; N.
cogent	convincing
surveillance	close observation of a person (esp. one under suspicion); watching; guarding
erode	eat away; wear away gradually by abrasion; Ex. The sea erodes the rocks.
contend	struggle; compete; assert earnestly; state strongly
splice	join together end to end to make one continuous length; fasten together; unite; Ex. splice two strips of tape; N.
modulate	tone down in intensity; change the intensity or tone of; regulate; change from one musical key to another; Ex. modulate from E to G
alias	an assumed name esp. by a criminal (usually to mislead people); ADV. alias
frenetic(phrenetic)	frenzied; frantic
consanguinity	kinship; relationship by birth
verbatim	word for word; in the same words; repeating the actual words exactly
dereliction	neglect of duty; abandonment
suspense	state of being undecided; anxiety or apprehension resulting from uncertainty
urchin	mischievous child (usually a boy); CF. urchin: hedgehog; CF. porcupine: pig with spikes ?; CF. sea urchin
repository	storehouse
metaphysical	pertaining to speculative philosophy; of metaphysics; N. metaphysics: branch of philosophy that examines the nature of reality
insomnia	wakefulness; inability to sleep
demur	object (because of doubts, scruples); raise an objection (showing qualms); hesitate; Ex. demur at the idea of working on Sunday
salvage	rescue (goods or property) from loss; N: saving; property saved
biting	sharply painful to the body or mind; Ex. biting wind/remarks
cursive	(of writing) flowing; running; having the successive letters joined
wilt	loose freshness; droop
prosperous	successful; rich; affluent; well-to-do; well-off
nauseate	cause to become sick; fill with disgust; fill nausea
brooch	ornamental clasp; pin
gainsay	deny
unassuming	modest; Ex. the champion's unassuming manner
maul	handle roughly; batter; injure by beating; Ex. mauled by his overexcited fans; N: heavy long-handled hammer
adorn	decorate
voracious	ravenous; eating large quantities of food; exceedingly eager; insatiable; Ex. voracious animal/reader
requiem	mass for the dead; dirge
graduated	arranged by degrees (of height, difficulty, etc.)
grudge	deep feeling of dislike; Ex. grudge fight; V.
decrepit	weak and in bad condition from old age or hard use; Ex. decrepit old chair/man
earn	gain for the performance of service or labor; gain (something that one deserves); deserve
knell	tolling of a bell especially to indicate a funeral, disaster, etc.; sound of the funeral bell; V.
loathe	detest; ADJ. loathsome: arousing loathing; offensive; Ex. loathsome smell
flotsam	drifting wreckage
grill	question severely; cook on a grill; broil; N: cooking surface of parallel metal bars
yokel	rustic; country bumpkin;
advert	refer
rhapsody	excessively enthusiastic expression of feeling; musical composition of irregular form (as if made up as one plays it)
pretentious	ostentatious; showy; pompous; making unjustified claims; overambitious; Ex. pretentious films that claim to be art
strident	loud and harsh; insistent; N. stridency
vicissitude	change (esp. from good to bad); change of fortune; CF. the last emperor of China
palm	conceal in the palm of the hand; palm off: pass off; Ex. palm off some bad oranges onto the lady/the painting as a real Renoir
buffet	strike forcefully; slap; batter; knock out; N: table with food set out for people to server themselves; meal at which people help themselves to food that's been set
decry	express strong disapproval of; condemn openly (something dangerous to the public); disparage; Ex. decry the violence of modern films
emasculate	weaken; castrate
hegemony	dominance especially of one nation over others
foul	very bad or disagreeable; very dirty; Ex. foul smell/flavor/temper/language/air/deed/weather/means; N. act against the rules; V. make or become foul; commit a foul
parallelism	state of being parallel; similarity; analogy
institute	organization for a special purpose; V: establish
imperceptible	unnoticeable; impossible to perceive; undetectable
mite	very small object or insect-like creature; small coin
proponent	supporter; backer; opposite of opponent
inert	inactive; lacking power to move; unable to move or act; Ex. chemically inert; N. inertia: state of being inert; force which keeps a thing in the position or state
automaton	mechanism that imitates actions of humans; machine that works by itself
whittle	pare; cut away thin bits (from wood); fashion in this way; reduce gradually; trim
turbulence	state of violent agitation; ADJ. turbulent: violently agitated or disturbed
abject	(of a condition) wretched; as low as possible; lacking pride; very humble; showing lack of self-respect; Ex. abject apology
benevolent	generous; charitable; having a wish to do good
accolade	award of merit; strong praise and approval
lope	gallop slowly
titanic	gigantic; N. titan
retribution	deserved punishment for wrongdoing; punishment for offenses; compensation; vengeance; CF. pay back
amorphous	formless; lacking shape or definition
ruse	trick to deceive; stratagem
avarice	greediness for wealth
coroner	public official who investigates any death thought to be of other than natural causes
hurl	throw forcefully; shout out violently
malevolent	wishing evil; exhibiting ill will; N. malevolence
subsequent	following in time or order; later
skirmish	minor fight; minor battle in war; V.
desperate	having lost all hope; despairing; reckless and violent because of loss of hope or despair; undertaken as a last resort
debonair	(of men) friendly, charming, and fashionably dressed; aiming to please; CF. of good disposition
intuition	immediate insight; power of knowing without reasoning; ADJ. intuitive; V. intuit: know by intuition
cadaver	corpse; dead human body
narcissist	conceited person; N. narcissism; CF. narcissus
grotto	small cavern
sonnet	14-line poetic verse form with a fixed rhyme pattern
incorporate	introduce something into a larger whole; include; embody; give material form to; ADJ.
simplistic	oversimplified
unexceptionable	entirely acceptable; not offering any basis for criticism
palatable	agreeable; pleasing to the taste
bleak	cold or cheerless; frigid; unlikely to be favorable; depressing
sonic	of sound or its speed in air; CF. subsonic, supersonic
repercussion	rebound; reaction; reverberation; Ex. serious repercussion
tirade	long angry denunciatory speech; diatribe; harangue; extended scolding; denunciation
dinghy	small boat (often ship's boat)
iniquitous	wicked; immoral; unrighteous; N. iniquity; Ex. den of iniquity
swelter	(of a person) suffer from oppressive heat; be oppressed by heat
prefatory	introductory; of a preface
devoid	empty; lacking
forlorn	sad and lonely; wretched; desolate
jab	 poke abruptly with something sharp; punch with short blows
precept	practical rule guiding conduct; Ex. mother's precept
understate	state with less truth than seems warranted by the facts; Ex. He understated the seriousness of the crime; N. understatement; OP. overstate
dabble	 work at in a nonserious fashion; splash around; move noisily in a liquid
wont	(the stated person's) habit or custom; habitual procedure; ADJ. wonted: customary
fissure	crevice; crack
foreboding	premonition of evil; feeling of coming evil; V. forebode: be a warning of (something unpleasant)
virtue	goodness; moral excellence; good quality; advantage; Ex. by virtue of; Ex. make a virtue of necessity
overblown	inflated; exaggerated
cardiologist	doctor specializing in ailments of the heart
putrefy	make or become putrid; N. putrefaction
ecosystem	ecological community together with its environment
benefit	advantage; anything that brings helpl, advantage, or profit; money provided by the government to the people; fund-raising public entertainment; Ex. unemployment benefit; V: receive benefits; be beneficial to; give benefits
lagoon	shallow body of water or lake near a sea; lake separated from a sea by sandbars or coral reefs
quash	crush; suppress; squash; subdue; annul; Ex. quash a rebellion/the decision of the low court
disburse	pay out (as from a fund); N. disbursement; CF. purse
disjunction	act or state of separation; disunity; CF. disjunctive: expressing a choice between two ideas; CF. conjunction; CF. conjunctive
theoretical	based on theory; not practical or applied; hypothetical
orthodox	traditional; (of someone) conservative in belief; adhering to an established doctrine
sedition	conduct or language inciting rebellion; rebellion; resistance to authority; insubordination; ADJ. seditious
implode	burst inward; CF. vaccum tube
flag	droop; grow feeble; decline in vigor or strength; ADJ. flagging; CF. unflagging
unconscionable	unscrupulous; not guided by conscience; excessive; beyond reason; Ex. unconscionable demand
passive	not active; acted upon; receiving an action without acting in return; accepting without resistance
fancied	imagined; unreal
ingrate	ungrateful person (not expressing thanks)
queasy	experiencing nausea; nauseated; easily nauseated; squeamish; Ex. feel a little queasy
scheme	systematic plan; plot; clever dishonest plan; orderly arrangement of elements; Ex. health insurance scheme; Ex. a scheme to escape taxes; Ex. a color scheme; Ex. a story with no scheme; V: contrive a scheme
vassal	in feudalism, one who held land of a superior lord; subordinate or dependent
timidity	lack of self-confidence or courage
replica	copy
aria	operatic solo; a song sung by one person in an opera or oratorio
paucity	scarcity; dearth
conscientious	scrupulous; through and careful; Ex. conscientious worker
conveyance	vehicle; transfer; act of conveying; Ex. public conveyance
floe	flat mass of floating ice
obliterate	destroy completely; wipe out; Ex. obliterate the village
cavalier	casual and offhand; arrogant; N: knight
slew	large quantity or number; Ex. slew of errands left
impropriety	improperness; unsuitableness
dilapidated	falling to pieces; in a bad condition; ruined because of neglect; Ex. dilapidated old car/castle; N. dilapidation
headfirst	moving with the head leading; headlong
knotty	intricate; difficult; tangled; CF. knot
execute	put into effect; carry out; kill as a lawful punishment; N. execution
wring	twist (to extract liquid); extract by twisting; wrench painfully (necks or hands)
abysmal	bottomless
perquisite(perk)	any gain above stipulated salary; Ex. perquisites such as free meals and a car
reminiscent	suggestive of something (in the past); of reminiscence
pall	become boring; grow tiresome
singular	being only one; individual; unique; extraordinary; odd; Ex. singular beauty/behavior
coincidence	the chance occurrence, at the same time, of two or more seemingly connected events; V. coincide: happen at the same time; be in agreement; CF. coincident; CF. coincidental
smear	spread or cover with a sticky substance; N: mark made by smearing
perversion	corruption; turning from right to wrong
clot	half-solid lump formed from a liquid (or blood); V.
awl	pointed tool used for piercing
decomposition	decay; V. decompose: decay; break and separate into simple parts
halcyon	calm; peaceful; Ex. halcyon days
fumble	move the fingers and hands awkwardly (in search of something); mishandle or drop a ball that is in play; bungle; botch; spoil by mishandling; N.
flirt	behave in a way that attracts (sexual) attention; deal triflingly with; N: one (or woman) given to flirting; ADJ. flirtatious
chalice	goblet; consecrated cup
dutiful(duteous)	(of people or their behavior) respectful; obedient (filled with a sense of duty)
profusion	great amount; plenty; overabundance; excess; lavish expenditure; Ex. profusion of choices; ADJ. profuse: plentiful; copious; giving or given abundantly; extravagant
terse	concise; abrupt; pithy
bourgeois	middle class; selfishly materialistic; too interested in material possessions
partisan	one-sided; prejudiced; committed to a party (with dislike of any others); N: strong supporter of a party; guerrilla
perceptive	insightful; showing a good ability at perceiving and understanding; aware; wise; of perception
varnish	paint used to coat a surface with a glossy film; glossy coating produced by using this substance; Ex. nail varnish; V.
defrock	strip a priest or minister of church authority; unfrock
vouchsafe	grant condescendingly; guarantee; Ex. vouchsafe your fair return on your investment
ignite	kindle; light; catch fire or set fire to
rally	come or bring together; call up or summon (forces, vital powers, etc.); revive or recuperate (after illness or difficulty); N: act of rallying; mass gathering
atrocity	brutal deed; ADJ. atrocious
exploit	make use of, sometimes unjustly; N. exploitation
canny	shrewd in money matters; thrifty
aristocracy	hereditary nobility; privileged class; government by nobility; N. aristocrat
incipient	beginning; in an early stage
propagate	increase in number by producing young; multiply; spread; Ex. Most plants propagate by seed; Ex. newspaper propagating their ideas
diffuse	wordy; verbose; rambling; spread out (like a gas); V: spread out in all directions; disperse; N. diffusion; CF. suffuse
contempt	scorn; disdain; ADJ. contemptuous; CF. contemptible
careen	lurch; sway from side to side; move with irregular swinging movement; stagger
commune	small (often rural) community whose members share work and income; V: exchange thoughts or feelings; Ex. commune with nature
indefatigable	tireless; untiring; showing no sign of getting tired
spawn	lay eggs (in large numbers); produce offspring (in large numbers); N: eggs of aquatic animals
discrete	separate; unconnected
fiasco	total failure; CF. bottle
slink	move furtively; ADJ. slinky: stealthy; furtive; sneaky (as in ambush)
sovereign	ruler in a monarchy; ADJ: (of a country) independent and self-governing; having supreme power; supreme; excellent
elusive	evasive; not frank; baffling; hard to grasp, catch, or understand; V. elude: escape from; escape the understanding or grasp of; Ex. elude the hunter; Ex. His name eludes me.
writhe	twist in coils; contort in pain
catechism	book for religious instruction in question-and-answer form; religious instruction by question and answer; V. catechize
vile	despicable; unpleasant; disgusting; Ex. vile slander
judicious	sound on judgment; wise
asymmetric	not identical on both sides of a dividing central line
procurement	obtaining; V. procure: obtain by effort; obtain (a prostitute) for another
espouse	adopt; support (an idea or aim); marry; N. espousal
dispirited	lacking in spirit
tantalize	tease; excite by exposing something desirable while keeping it out of reach; torture with disappointment; CF. Tantalus: Greek mythological figure
burlesque	give an imitation that ridicules; imitate mockingly
attrition	rubbing away by friction; gradual decrease in numbers or strength; reduction in the work force without firing employees; wearing away of opposition by means of harassment; Ex. a war of attrition
unfeigned	genuine; real
mime	pantomime(act without dialogue); mimicry; mimer; V: mimic; pantomime
palpable	tangible; (of something bad) easily perceptible; obvious; Ex. palpable blunder
multiform	having many forms
slither	slip or slide
consanguineous(consanguine)	having a common ancestor
berserk	mad with violent anger; frenzied; madly excited
ashen	ash-colored; deadly pale
yeoman	man or farmer owning small estate; middle-class farmer
miscellaneous	made up of a variety of parts
inimical	(of someone) unfriendly; hostile; (of something) harmful; detrimental; CF. enemy
pitfall	hidden danger; concealed trap
physiognomy	face (as showing the character and the mind); art of judging human character from facial features
compress	force into less space; squeeze; contract; put into fewer words; N: thick mass of cloth pressed to part of the body to stop bleeding or swelling, reduce fever, etc.
defer	give in respectfully; submit; delay till later; exempt temporarily; N. deferment; CF. show respect, comply with, courteous
fell	cut or knock down (a tree or a person); bring down (with a missile)
domicile	home; V. ADJ. domiciled: having one's domicile; Ex. He is domiciled in Britain.
egoism	excessive interest in one's self; belief that one should be interested in one's self rather than in others; selfishness; ADJ. egoistic, egoistical
petrify	turn to stone; cause to become stonelike; stun or paralyze
awful	terrible; very bad
scad	a great quantity; Ex. scads of clothes
gruel	thin liquid porridge
condole	express condolences; N. condolence: sympathy for someone who has experienced great sorrow
incriminate	accuse of or implicate in a crime; serve as evidence against; cause to seem or make guilty of a crime; Ex. incriminating evidence
casual	happening by chance; irregular; occasional; informal; showing or feeling little interest; Ex. casual reader/labor/remark
tortuous	winding; full of curves; Ex. tortuous mountain road
saline	salty
initiate	begin; originate; receive into a group; introduce to a new field or activity; Ex. initiate someone into the mysteries of a secret religion; N: one who has been initiated
hue_and_cry	outcry; loud cry or clamor; strong protest; Ex. hue and cry against the new rule
hurtle	crash; rush; move with great speed; Ex. hurtling runaway train
gerrymander	change voting district lines in order to favor a political party; N. CF. Elbridge Gerry + (sala)mander
touching	causing a feeling of pity or sympathy; pathetic; V. touch: cause to feel pity or sympathy; ADJ. touched
verdigris	green coating or patina on copper which has been exposed to the weather
satyr	half-human, half-bestial being in the court of Dionysus (resembling a goat), portrayed as wanton(unrestrained) and cunning; lecher; CF. faun; CF. goat: lecherous man
interrogate	question closely; cross-examine; cross-question
slick	make smooth or glossy; N: smooth surface; Ex. oil slick; ADJ: smooth; glossy; deftly executed; adroit; glib
depict	portray
elixir	cure-all; panacea; something invigorating
sobriety	moderation (especially regarding indulgence in alcohol); seriousness
solstice	point or time at which the sun is farthest from the equator
prevail	be widespread; triumph over; gain victory; prevail on: persuade; induce; Ex. Justice has prevailed; Ex. prevail on someone to do something
extricate	free from an entanglement or difficulty; disentangle
euphoria	feeling of exaggerated or unfounded(ungrounded; baseless) well-being; feeling of great happiness or well-being (when unreasonable); ADJ. euphoriaric
chaff	worthless products of an endeavor; husk(outer seed cover) separated from grain; Ex. separate the wheat from the chaff
parsimony	stinginess; excessive frugality; ADJ. parsimonious
rivulet	small stream; CF. rill < rivulet < river
touchstone	stone used to test the fineness of gold alloys; criterion; standard
debauch	corrupt morally; seduce from virtue; N. debauchery: wild behavior (with sex and alcohol)
assent	agree; accept; N. assessment
bigot	one who is intolerant (in matters of religion or politics)
discretion	prudence; ability to adjust actions to circumstances; freedom of action or judgment; ADJ. discreet; CF. discretionary
culpable	deserving blame; blameworthy
fulminate	thunder; explode; issue a severe denunciation
ellipsis	omission of words from a text; mark used to indicate an omission (when the meaning can be understood without them); PL. ellipses
docile	obedient; easily managed; submissive
foil	defeat; frustrate; prevent from being successful; thwart; CF. fail
parish	area in the care of a single priest and served by one main church
cunning	clever in deceiving; sly; N: cleverness in deceiving; deceit
lexicon	dictionary
parochial	narrow in scope or outlook; provincial; related to parishes
caldron(cauldron)	large kettle
vertebrate	having a backbone or spinal column; N: group of animals having a segmented spinal column
freebooter	pirate or plunderer who makes war in order to grow rich
explicit	totally clear; definite; outspoken
titillate	tickle; excite pleasantly; Ex. not to titillate the audience but to enlighten it
exuberance	overflowing abundance; joyful enthusiasm; flamboyance; lavishness; ADJ. exuberant: high-spirited and lively; growing abundantly and strongly
disseminate	distribute; spread; scatter (like seeds)
impotent	weak; ineffective; lacking in physical strength or power
gist	essence; main point; substance
anthropomorphic	having human form or characteristics
smudge	dirty mark with unclear edges made by rubbing; V.
ursine	bearlike; pertaining to a bear
mystic	of hidden meaning and spiritual power; Ex. mystic ceremonies; N. CF. mysticism
vaporize	turn into vapor (steam, gas, fog, etc.)
befuddle	confuse thoroughly
render	give; deliver; provide; represent in verbal or artistic form; depict; perform; make; translate; Ex. render the song beautifully
musty	stale (in odor or taste); spoiled by age; CF. moist
brittle	hard but easily broken; difficult; unstable; Ex. brittle situation
escapade	prank; flighty conduct; reckless adventure that disobeys rules
credential	evidence concerning one's authority; written proof of a person's position; Ex. The new ambassador presented his credentials to the court.
malapropos	inappropriate; ADV.
hummock	small hill; hillock
rivet	metal pin used for fastening metal plates together; V: fasten with a rivet; engross
entice	lure; persuade to do (something wrong); attract; tempt
inveigh	denounce; utter censure or invective; Ex. inveigh against the evils of drink
die	metal block used for shaping metal or plastic; device for stamping or impressing; mold; CF. dice
damn	condemn; criticize severely; condemn to everlasting punishment; doom; bring to ruin; N. damnation
underlying	lying below; fundamental
indicative	suggestive; implying; serving to indicate
missive	letter; written statement; CF. sent
quarantine	isolation of a person, place, or ship to prevent spread of infection; V: isolate in quarantine
penology	study of prison management and criminal rehabilitation
husband	use sparingly; conserve; save; Ex. husband one's energy; CF. house holder
amplify	increase in size or effect; expand; broaden or clarify by expanding; intensify; make stronger; Ex. amplify one's remarks with a graph
innuendo	indirect or subtle (derogatory) hint; insinuation; Ex. sexual innuendo
impunity	freedom from punishment or harm; CF. punish
ambrosia	food of the gods
circuitous	roundabout
empathy	ability to identify with another's feelings, ideas, etc.; identification with and understanding of another's feelings; V. empathize; CF. sympathy
cuisine	style of cooking; Ex. French cuisine
vagary	capricious happening; caprice; whim; CF. wander
lottery	contest in which winners are selected in a drawing of lots
hysteria	excessive or uncontrollable excitement; N. hysteric: person suffering from hysteria; CF. hysterics: attack of hysteria
retort	quick sharp reply; V.
compensatory	making up for; repaying
burgeon	grow rapidly; grow forth; send out buds; Ex. burgeoning computer industry; CF. bludgeon
odorous	having an odor
besmirch	soil; defile; make dirty
resort	turn to for help; Ex. resort to violence; N.
provident	providing for future needs; displaying foresight; thrifty; preparing for emergencies; OP. improvident
heresy	opinion contrary to popular belief; opinion contrary to accepted religion; ADJ. heretical; CF. heretic
supine	lying on back; passive; inactive; Ex. The defeated pugilist lay supine; Ex. supine acceptance of the decision
canine	related to dogs; doglike
extrude	force or push out; thrust out; shape (plastic or metal) by forcing through a die
haughtiness	pride; arrogance; ADJ. haughty
equivocate	use equivocal language to deceive people; lie; mislead; attempt to conceal the truth; N. equivocation
stodgy	dull; stuffy; boringly conservative; Ex. stodgy book
validate	make valid; confirm; ratify
wrongheaded	stubbornly wrong
malady	illness
diatribe	bitter scolding or denunciation; invective; abuse
detraction	slandering; aspersion; detracting; CF. detractor
mason	one who builds or works with stone or brick; N. masonry: work of a mason; stonework or brickwork
vociferous	clamorous; noisy; V. vociferate: cry out loudly (when complaining)
exculpate	clear from blame or guilt
affiliation	joining; associating with
mincing	affectedly dainty(delicate); V. mince: cut (esp. meat) into very small pieces; walk with exaggerated primness; walk in an unnatural way, taking little short steps; Ex. The actor minced across the stage; CF. mincemeat; CF. mincer
subversive	tending to overthrow or ruin; V. subvert: overthrow completely (an established system); destroy completely; CF. undermine ?
crotchety	(of someone old) eccentric; odd; whimsical; bad-tempered; N. crotchet: odd or whimsical notion
guile	deceit; duplicity; wiliness; cunning; Ex. persuade her by guile
impromptu	without previous preparation; off the cuff(end of a sleeve); on the spur of the moment
ominous	threatening; of an evil omen
venture	risk; expose to risk; dare; undertake a risk; N.
presage	foretell; be a warning or sign of; N: presentiment; foreboding; omen
enumerate	list; mention one by one
paltry	insignificant; petty; trifling; contemptible; Ex. paltry sum; CF. trash
coercion	use of force to get someone to object; compelling; V. coerce
throttle	strangle; regulate the speed of with a throttle; N: valve that regulates the flow; CF. throat ?
linger	loiter or dawdle; be slow in leaving; delay going; continue or persist; be slow to disappear; Ex. The smell lingered for days.
leave-taking	farewell or departure
smother	kill from lack of air; suppress; cover thickly; Ex. smothered in little stickers
delusive	deceptive; likely to delude; misleading; raising vain hopes; Ex. delusive promises
guise	outward appearance; costume; Ex. in a new guise
pervert	corrupt; turn from right to wrong; misuse; Ex. perverted sexual desire/scientific knowledge; N: person whose sexual behavior is not natural
aesthetic	artistic; dealing with or capable of appreciating the beautiful (of a person or building); CF. aesthete; CF. aesthetics
mirage	unreal reflection; optical illusion
conglomeration	mass of material sticking together
glitter	shine brightly with flashing points of light; Ex. glittering diamond ring; N: sparkling light; attractiveness; glamor; Ex. glitter of the sun on the waves
humus	substance or rich soil formed by decaying vegetable matter; CF. soil
consign	send to a person or place for sale; deliver officially; entrust; put into the care of another; set apart (for a special purpose); N. consignment; CF. consignor, consignee
finale	conclusion; concluding part
unfaltering	steadfast; firm; not changing
bearing	deportment; connection
affinity	feeling of kinship; similarity; Ex. strong affinity for her; Ex. many affinities between two languages
hirsute	hairy; having a lot of hair
trajectory	path taken by a projectile; Ex. trajectory of a bullet
fiat	command; arbitrary order; Ex. presidential fiat; CF. let it be done
putrescent	becoming putrid; putrefying
chase	ornament a metal surface by indenting; follow rapidly to catch
deposition	testimony under oath; deposing; dethroning
antidote	remedy to counteract a poison or disease; Ex. antidote to the economic troubles
irresolute	uncertain how to act; weak; lacking in resolution; indecisive; N. irresolution
surreptitious	done secretly; secret; furtive; sneaky; hidden
tedium	boredom; weariness; ADJ. tedious
raze	destroy completely; Ex. raze the city to the ground
depreciate	lessen in value; belittle; represent as of little value
sentient	capable of sensation and conscious; aware; sensitive; Ex. sentient creature; N. sentience
collusion	conspiring in a fraudulent scheme to cheat or deceive others; V. collude
pivotal	of a pivot; central; critical; crucial
aspire	seek to attain (position or status); long for; Ex. aspire to become president; Ex. aspire to/after the leadership
maladroit	clumsy; not skillful; awkward; bungling
unsightly	ugly; unpleasant to look at
stratum	layer of earth's surface; layer of society; PL. strata
bent	determined; Ex. bent on advancing in the business; N: natural talent or inclination
fringe	decorative edge of hanging threads; edge
chide	scold; rebuke (someone who has done wrong)
junta	group of persons joined in political intrigue; cabal; group of military officers ruling a country after seizing power (by force)
prologue	introduction (to a poem or play)
periphery	outside edge especially of a round surface; perimeter; Ex. periphery of the town
droop	bend or hang downward; become weakened; Ex. His shoulders drooped with tiredness; N.
luscious	pleasing to taste or smell; delicious
compliance	conformity in fulfilling requirements; readiness to yield; disposition to yield to others; V. comply
scrutinize	examine closely and critically; N. scrutiny
elysian	relating to paradise; blissful
permissive	allowing much freedom; lenient; Ex. permissive society
foolhardy	rash; reckless; foolishly daring
vision	eyesight; foresight; mental image produced by the imagination; experience of seeing the supernatural
omniscient	all-knowing
mantle	loose sleeveless outer garment; cloak; something that covers or envelops; the layer of the earth between the crust and the core
implement	put into effect; enforce; carry out; supply with tools; Ex. implement the plan/suggestion; N: tool or instrument
arboreal	of or living in trees
expansive	(of a person) outgoing and sociable; broad and extensive; able to increase in size
rusticate	banish to the country; dwell in the country
festive	joyous; celebratory; relating to a feast or festival
scholarly	full of learning; erudite; like a scholar; Ex. scholarly journal
enigma	puzzle; mystery; ADJ. enigmatic: obscure; puzzling
tractable	docile; easily managed; (of something) easily changed or molded; N. tractability
buoyant	able to float; cheerful and optimistic; N. buoyancy; Ex. buoyancy of wood/water/American market
appellation	name; title
avert	prevent; avoid; turn away (eyes or thought); Ex. An accident was averted by his quick thinking; Ex. She averted her eyes from the terrible sight.
wary	very cautious; watchful
minutiae	petty or trivial details; CF. minutia
extirpate	root up; uproot; destroy completely
illusive	deceiving; based on illusion; causing illusion; deceptive
embody	give a bodily form to; incorporate; include
lechery	gross lewdness; lustfulness; ADJ. lecherous; N. lecher: lecherous man
deputize	work or appoint as a deputy; N. deputy: person who has the power to take charge when the leading person is away
skim	read or glance through quickly; touch lightly in passing; brush; remove from the surface of a liquid
char	make or become black by burning; reduce or be reduced to carbon or charcoal(black substance made by burning wood) by incomplete combustion
skimp	provide or use scantily; live very economically; Ex. skimp on necessities; ADJ. skimpy: inadequate in amount; scanty; stingy; niggardly
functional	made for practical use only (without decoration); functioning; Ex. functional modern furniture; CF. functionalism
stamina	power of endurance; strength; staying power
slapdash	hasty and careless; haphazard; sloppy(carelessly done)
snicker	half-stifled(suppressed) laugh; V.
prize	pry; move with a lever; value highly; esteem; Ex. his most prized possession; N: something captured during war-time (esp. an enemy ship)
catcall	shout of disapproval or displeasure (made at the theater or a sports match); boo; V.
quench	assuage or satisfy (thrust); slake; douse or extinguish; put out; suppress
artery	blood-vessel; CF. vein
dossier	file of documents on a subject or person; file; CF. bundle of papers labeled on the back
bicker	quarrel
manacle	restrain; handcuff; N.
dolorous	sorrowful; N. dolor
sadistic	inclined to cruelty; N. sadism: delight in cruelty
dilatory	delaying; tending to delay
subsume	include (as a member of a group); encompass
succumb	yield (to something overwhelming); give in; die; Ex. succumb to the illness
furrow	long shallow trench made by a plow; deep wrinkle in the skin; V.
dregs	sediment in a liquid; lees; worthless residue
crestfallen	dejected; dispirited
denigrate	blacken; defame
notable	conspicuous; worthy of note; remarkable; important; distinguished; noted
optometrist	one who fits glasses to remedy visual defects
venal	capable of being bribed; corrupt; CF. vernal
profound	deep; not superficial; complete; Ex. profound thinker/remark/silence/deafness; N. profundity
rabid	of or suffering rabies; like a fanatic; extremely zealous; furious; CF. rabies: hydrophobia
compelling	overpowering; irresistible in effect; holding one's attention; that compels one to do something; Ex. a compelling adventure story; V. compel
license	official or legal permission; latitude of action or speech; excessive freedom that causes harm or damage; V.
strut	supporting bar; CF. airplane wing building support
ravenous	extremely hungry; voracious
apocalyptic	prophetic; pertaining to revelations especially of disaster; N. apocalypse
scaffold	temporary platform for workers (to work at heights above the ground); bracing framework; platform for execution
labile	 likely to change; unstable; Ex. emotionally labile; N. lability
vain	full of self-admiration; conceited; without result; unsuccessful; N. vanity
idyllic	charmingly carefree; simple and happy; Ex. idyllic scene
incarnate	endowed with flesh; invested with bodily form; personified; Ex. devil incarnate; V: give bodily form to; embody
microcosm	small representative world; world in miniature; Ex. microcosm of English society
regal	royal; of a monarch; Ex. regal manner
regime	method of system or government
unceremonious	not done politely without due formalities
unfetter	liberate; free from chains; V. unfetter
augment	increase; add to
abscission	cutting off; separation
succor	assist (someone in difficulty); aid; comfort; N.
coquette	flirt; flirtatious woman; woman who tries to attract the admiration of men without sincere feelings; V.
entree(entr\'ee)	entrance; a way in; right to enter; main dish of a meal; Ex. entree into the exclusive circle
miasma	swamp gas; heavy vaporous atmosphere often emanating from decaying matter; pervasive corrupting influence; noxious atmosphere or influence
inexorable	relentless; unyielding; implacable; not capable of being changed by entreaty or efforts; Ex. inexorable price rises
carnal	fleshly; sensual; concerning the desires of the body
alimentary	supplying nourishment
emulate	imitate; rival; try to equal or excel (through imitation)
import	significance; importance; meaning
dawdle	loiter; hang around; waste time doing nothing
bulk	size or volume (esp. when very large); main part; Ex. The bulk of the work has already been done; ADJ. bulky: having great size
cognitive	having to do with knowing or perceiving related to the mental processes; N. cognition: the mental process of knowing
porous	full of pores; like a sieve
stanch	stop or check flow of blood; Ex. stanch the gushing wound
trifling	trivial; unimportant
suppliant	entreating; beseeching; N.
suture	stitches sewn to hold the cut edges of a wound or incision; material used in sewing; V: sew together a wound
tether	tie (an animal) with a rope or tether; N: rope or chain to which an animal is tied; limit of one's endurance; Ex. the end of one's tether
saccharine	cloying sweet; characteristic of sugar or saccharin
overt	open to view; public; not secret; CF. covert
feasible	practical; able to be carried out; practicable
Philistine	narrow-minded person, uncultured and exclusively interested in material gain; uncultured person who is indifferent to artistic and cultural values; member of an ancient people in Palestine; OP. aesthete
derogatory	expressing a low opinion; disparaging; V. derogate: detract; disparage
diurnal	daily; occurring during the daytime
disparate	basically different; impossible to compare; unrelated
hibernal	wintry; wintery; of or like winter
orifice	mouthlike opening; small opening (esp. to a cavern or passage of the body); CF. mouth
prune	cut away; trim
conflagration	great fire
thrall	slave; bondage; slavery; Ex. Her beauty held him in thrall; CF. enthrall
overweening	arrogant; presumptuous
limpid	crystal clear
martial	warlike; of war; Ex. martial art/law
reverberate	echo repeatedly; resound; Ex. The thunder reverberated across the valley.
trappings	outward decorations; ornaments (as an outward sign of rank)
badinage	teasing conversation; banter; joking talk
steadfast	steadily loyal; unswerving; steady
inductive	pertaining to induction or proceeding from the specific to the general
scenario	plot outline; screenplay(script for a movie); opera libretto; outline of possible future events
nimble	quick in movement; agile; quick in understanding; Ex. nimble climber/mind
falter	hesitate; weaken in purpose or action; walk or move unsteadily through weakness; N.
bloated	(unpleasantly) swollen or puffed as with water or air
mutilate	maim; injure lastingly; deprive of a limb or an essential part
untenable	(of a position, esp. in an argument) indefensible; not able to be maintained
celerity	speed; rapidity
aplomb	poise; composure in difficult situations; assurance; self-confidence
solicit	entreat; request earnestly; seek to obtain; Ex. solicit votes; CF. solicitor: one who solicits; chief law officer
lap	take in food or drink with one's tongue; splash gently; Ex. waves lapping the shore; N: front area from the waist to the knees of a seated person
tender	offer formally; extend; Ex. tender one's resignation/the exact fare; N: formal offer; money; Ex. legal tender; ADJ: young and vulnerable; sensitive to the touch; sore; soft; delicate; Ex. child of tender years; Ex. tender wound
ancillary	serving as an aid or accessory; auxiliary; N.
defection	desertion
omnipotent	all-powerful; having unlimited power
preen	make oneself tidy in appearance; feel self-satisfaction or pride; (of a bird) smooth or clean (feathers) with the beak; Ex. preen oneself on; CF. prune
precinct	division of a city for election or police purposes; precincts: space that surrounds a building; Ex. precincts of the college
nominal	in name only; of a name; trifling; (of a sum of money) very small; CF. nominate: propose as a candidate; appoint
vacillate	 waver (in opinion); fluctuate; sway to and fro; N. vacillation
fluster	confuse; make nervous and confused; N.
gourmet	connoisseur of food and drink; epicure
aptitude	fitness; talent
imperturbable	unshakably calm; placid
disfigure	mar the appearance of; spoil
doctrinaire	unable to compromise about points of doctrine; dogmatic; unyielding; marked by inflexible attachment to a doctrine without regard to its practical difficulties
pristine	unspoiled; remaining in a pure state; characteristic of earlier times; primitive; Ex. an old book in pristine condition
repudiate	disown; disavow; deny
multilingual	having many languages; fluent in several languages
underscore	underline; emphasize
chapel	small church (in a prison, college, or hospital)
decapitate	behead
parry	ward off a blow; deflect; Ex. He parried the unwelcome question very skillfully; N.
belittle	disparage; depreciate
bawdy	indecent; obscene; about sex in a rude funny way; CF. bawd
remonstrate	protest; objection; V. remonstrate: say in protest
virus	disease communicator
monumental	massive; impressively large; built as a monument
gingerly	very carefully; ADJ.
podium	pedestal; raised platform
rehabilitate	restore to proper condition (health or useful life); restore the former rank of
auspicious	favoring success; giving signs of future success; Cf. auspices
loquacious	talkative; N. loquacity
decelerate	slow down
engaging	charming; attractive
spangle	small shiny metallic piece sewn to clothing for ornamentation
altruistic	unselfishly generous; concerned for others; N. altiruism: unselfish concern for the welfare of others; unselfishness; OP. egoism
lax	careless; negligent; not paying enough attention; Ex. lax service
empirical	based on experience
waif	homeless child or animal; Ex. waifs and strays
beeline	direct quick route
corollary	natural consequence (which naturally follows from something else)
tremulous	trembling; wavering
equilibrium	balance of opposing forces; balance of the mind; equanimity
clapper	striker (tongue) of a bell
compost	mixture of decaying organic matter used as fertilizer; V: put or make compost
insinuate	hint; imply; suggest indirectly; creep in; introduce or insert (oneself) by artful means; Ex. insinuate himself into the boss's favor; CF. ingratiate
ambush	act of lying in wait to attack by surprise; sudden attack made from a concealed position; Ex. lie in ambush; V.
irony	hidden sarcasm or satire; use of words that seem to mean the opposite of what they actually mean; use of words to convey the opposite of their literal meaning
turgid	swollen; distended (as from liquid)
pittance	small amount (of money); small allowance or wage
fervent	ardent; zealous; hot
constituency	voters represented by an elected official; district so represented; group of supporters (or constituents)
discerning	mentally quick and observant; having insight; perceptive; able to make good judgments; V. discern: perceive
incident	event; event that causes a crisis
retrench	cut down; cut down expenses; economize
avantgarde	group of artists whose work is based on the newest ideas and methods; CF. vanguard
ultimate	final; not susceptible to further analysis; fundamental; Ex. The sun is the ultimate source of energy.
zeal	eager enthusiasm (to a cause or ideal); ADJ. zealous
lascivious	lustful
cognizance	knowledge; ADJ. cognizant; having knowledge; aware
ovation	enthusiastic applause
molt(moult)	periodically shed or cast off hairs or feathers (for replacement by a new growth)
patrimony	property inherited from a father
insipid	lacking in flavor; lacking interest; dull; Ex. insipid food/character
crest	top (as of a hill or wave); showy feathers on the head of a bird
flutter	(of a bird with large wings) wave (the wings) lightly, rapidly, and irregularly; vibrate rapidly or erratically; fly by waving quickly; flitter; N.
obfuscate	confuse; muddle; cause confusion; make needlessly complex; make so confused as to be difficult to understand
grandiloquent	(of a person or speech) using high sounding or important-sounding language; pompous; bombastic
veritable	being truly so; real or genuine; actual; not false or imaginary
knead	mix; work dough; mix and work into a uniform mass (with the hands); Ex. knead dough
memorialize	commemorate
mingle	mix together in close association
bombastic	pompous; using inflated language
witticism	witty saying; wisecrack(clever joking remark)
indignation	anger at an injustice; Ex. righteous indignation; ADJ. indignant
halfhearted	exhibiting little interest or enthusiasm
herpetologist	one who studies reptiles; CF. herpetology: branch of zoology that deals with reptiles and amphibians
purgatory	place of spiritual expiation; temporary state or place in which the souls must expiate their sins
nauseous	causing nausea; feeling nausea
hypochondriac	person unduly worried about his health; worrier without cause about illness; ADJ. CF. hypochondria: neurosis that one is or is becoming ill; CF. abdomen
adversity	great hardship or affliction; misfortune; calamitous event
vicarious	experienced as if one were taking part in the experience of another; done by a deputy for other people; acting as a substitute; Ex. vicarious thrill at the movies; Ex. the vicarious sufferings of Christ
inclement	stormy; unkind; unmerciful; CF. clement
interjection	exclamation; Ex. ``Ouch''
legerdemain	sleight(dexterity) of hand; CF. light of hand
allude	refer indirectly; N. allusion: indirect reference
alienate	make unfriendly or hostile; estrange; separate; change the ownership of
tertiary	third in order or rank
bland	soothing or mild (food); agreeable; causing no trouble or offence
boon	blessing; benefit; something very helpful
blithe(blithesome)	gay; joyous
miniature	small model; small painting; ADJ: small
theocracy	government run by religious leaders
opportunist	individual who sacrifices principles for expediency by taking advantage of circumstances; N. opportunism
grueling	exhausting; Ex. grueling marathon race
sledge	large sled drawn by work animals
talon	claw of bird
amass	collect (gradually, in a very large amount)
desultory	aimless; haphazard; digressing at random
infantile	childish; infantlike
ascertain	find out for certain; make certain
undertaker	funeral director; one whose business is to arrange burials
defray	provide for the payment of; undertake the payment of; pay
whine	complain (in a sad voice); make a high sad sound (as in pain or supplication)
vantage	position giving an advantage (such as a strategic point); CF. vantagepoint
solace	comfort in sorrow or trouble; consolation; V: comfort or console in time of sorrow or trouble
clich\'e	phrase dulled in meaning by repetition; platitude; ADJ. clich\'ed
astute	wise; shrewd; keen; seeing quickly something that is to one's advantage
exceptionable	objectionable; likely to cause dislike; offensive; CF. unexceptionable: entirely acceptable
predicament	difficult situation; tricky or dangerous situation; dilemma
snivel	complain or whine tearfully; run at the nose; snuffle; Ex. Don't come back sniveling to me.
onomatopoeia	words formed in imitation of natural sounds
psychic	of psyche; mental; of or possessing extraordinary mental powers
perfunctory	done routinely and with little care; superficial; not thorough; lacking interest, care, or enthusiasm; Ex. perfunctory kiss
coy	shy (flirtatiously); showing a (pretended) lack of self-confidence; modest; coquettish; CF. job offer
unction	the act of anointing with oil; Ex. extreme unction
eccentric	irregular; odd; unconventional; whimsical; bizarre; not concentric
diverse	differing in some characteristics (from each other); various; N. diversity: | variety; dissimilitude; lack of resemblance
quietude	tranquillity; calmness
migratory	wandering; V. migrate: move from one region and settle in another; move periodically from one region to another
porridge	soft food made by boiling oatmeal
incursion	temporary invasion; CF. excursion: short journey
grandiose	affectedly grand; pretentious; high-flown; ridiculously exaggerated; impressive; great in size or scope; grand; Ex. grandiose ideas
diva	operatic singer; prima donna
sophisticated	worldly wise and urbane; refined; complex; N. sophistication; V. sophisticate
sluggish	lazy; slow; inactive; lethargic; CF. slug: nail with no shell
squabble	minor quarrel; bickering; V: engage in a minor quarrel; Ex. squabbling children
promote	advance in rank; advance; help to flourish; advocate; help actively in forming; publicize or popularize; Ex. Milk promotes health; Ex. promote a match/bill; Ex. promote a new product
saunter	stroll(go for a leisurely walk) slowly; N.
bookish	fond of books and reading
impart	grant a share of; make known; Ex. news to impart
nascent	incipient; coming into being or existence; Ex. nascent ability in music
confiscate	seize; take possession of (private property) by official order (usu. as a punishment); commandeer
backwards	and forwards; Ex. reciprocate his invitation by inviting him; N. reciprocity: reciprocal relationship; mutual interchange of advantages between two groups; Ex. reciprocity in trading rights
intoxicate	make drunk; stimulate or excite; Ex. intoxicated by all the money he might win
tessellated	mosaic; inlaid; Ex. tessellated pattern
chancellor	legal official of high rank; CF. chancellery(chancellory): position of a chancellor
badger	pester; annoy continually with demands; persuade by asking again and again; Ex. The children badgered me into taking them into the cinema; N: a kind of mountain animal
gastronomy	art and science of preparing and serving good food; CF. gastronome
ordination	ceremony conferring holy orders; ceremony of ordaining a priest
uxorious	excessively submissive or devoted to one's wife; CF. uxor: wife
deride	ridicule; treat with contempt; make fun of; OP. respect
categorical	without exceptions; made without any doubt in mind; unqualified; absolute
hue	color; aspect; Ex. opinions of every hue
shaving	very thin piece, usually of wood (cut from a surface with a sharp blade)
patina	green crust on old bronze works or copper; tone slowly taken by varnished painting
prominent	protruding(sticking out); conspicuous; notable; eminent
rousing	lively; inducing excitement; stirring; V. rouse: waken; arouse from sleep or depression; excite; stir up
manipulate	operate with one's hands; control or play upon (people, forces, etc.) artfully; maneuver; Ex. how to manipulate publicity and men; ADJ. manipulative
distinctive	clearly different from others of the same kind
daze	stun as with a blow or shock; bemuse; benumb; N.
vagabond	wanderer (without a permanent home); tramp
opus	work (esp. musical composition); Ex. magnum opus: masterpiece; CF. opera
upright	(sitting or standing) straight up; honest; moral
whelp	young animal (esp. of the dog or cat family); young wolf, dog, tiger, etc.
sarcasm	cutting ironic remark; scornful remarks; stinging rebuke; ADJ. sarcastic
centrifugal	radiating; departing from the center
unruly	disobedient; lawless; difficult to control
tepid	lukewarm; slightly warm; half-hearted; not eager; Ex. tepid reaction to the new film; Ex. tepid supporter
zany	 comic; crazy; N: clown; comical person (given to outlandish behavior)
protean	able to take on many forms; versatile; CF. Proteus: sea god to change his shape at will
flippant	lacking proper seriousness; Ex. flippant remarks about death; N. flippancy
commandeer	take (private property) for military use without needing permission or giving payment; draft for military purposes
cathartic	purgative; medicine that causes the bowels to empty; ADJ.
lace	cord used to draw and tie together two opposite edges (as of a shoe); delicate fabric made of fine threads; V: draw together by tying a lace
idiom	expression whose meaning as a whole differs from the meanings of its individual words; distinctive style (of expression); Ex. idiom of the modern popular music; ADJ. idiomatic
choice	delicate; of very fine quality
obdurate	stubborn; refusing to change one's belief
supplicate	petition humbly; pray to grant a favor
soliloquy	talking to oneself (esp. in a play); CF. monologue: soliloquy; long speech by one person (often monopolizing a conversation)
stout	rather fat; strong in body; sturdy; resolute; determined; strong in determination; Ex. stout stick/supporter
brusque	blunt; abrupt; curt; not wanting to waste time being nice
concur	agree; coincide; happen at the same time
penury	extreme poverty; stinginess; ADJ. penurious: very poor; stingy
wiggle	wriggle; move from side to side with irregular twisting motions
patent	obvious; easily seen; open for the public to read; of or protected by a patent; Ex. patent to everyone; N.
circumscribe	limit; confine; draw a line around
illusion	misleading vision or visual image; false idea or belief; CF. delusion
rabble	 mob; noisy crowd
holster	leather pistol case (that hangs on a belt around the waist)
pen	fenced enclosure for animals; confining space; Ex. sheep pen; V: confine in a pen; enclose
indeterminate	uncertain; not clearly fixed; indefinite
transport	strong emotion; rapture; Ex. in a transport/transports of; V: move to strong emotion; enrapture
resign	give up (a position, right, or claim); submit (oneself) passively
encroachment	gradual intrusion; Ex. I resent all these encroachments on my valuable time; V. encroach: take another's possessions or right gradually or stealthily; intrude; Ex. encroach on/upon
sensuous	giving pleasure to the senses; pertaining to the physical senses; operating through the senses; sensuous feeling of soft velvet on the skin
anvil	iron block used in hammering out metals
aperture	opening; hole; adjustable opening in a camera that limits the amount of light
drudge	do drudgery; N: person who drudges
atone	make amends for; pay for; Ex. atone for
vapid	lacking liveliness; dull and unimaginative; insipid and flavorless; Ex. vapid lecture
apothecary	druggist; pharmacist
deploy	spread out (troops) in an extended though shallow battle line; distribute (persons or forces) systematically or strategically
petty	trivial; unimportant; very small; small-minded; petty-minded
beset	harass or trouble from all directions; hem in
condone	overlook; forgive; give tacit approval; excuse
unprepossessing	unattractive
polemical(polemic)	aggressive in verbal attack; disputatious (rather than simply expressing opinions)
wrinkle	small ridge on a smooth surface (face or cloth); V.
corrode	destroy or wear away gradually by chemical action (over a long period)
withhold	refuse to give; hold back; Ex. withholding tax
swill	drink greedily
litter	waste material thrown away (as bits of paper scattered untidily); V: cover untidily with scattered litter
proscribe	prohibit; ostracize; banish; outlaw
mutablility	ability to change in form; fickleness; ADJ. mutable: able to change; fickle; CF. mutate; CF. mutant
bound	leap or spring; limit or confine; constitute the limit of; Ex. bounded by Canada; N: leap or jumping; boundary; ADJ: certain; having a duty to do something (legally or morally); confined by bonds; Ex. We are bound to be late; Ex. I am bound to
matriculate	enroll (in college or graduate school); CF. matrix
precise	exact
adapt	make or become suitable for a specific use; alter; modify; adjust; N. adaptation: act of adapting; composition recast into a new form; Ex. The play is an adaption of a short novel.
fidelity	loyalty; accuracy
disjointed	disconnected; lacking coherence; V. disjoint: disconnect; disjoin
inarticulate	speechless; producing indistinct speech; not articulate; not expressing oneself clearly
compulsion	compelling; strong desire that is difficult to control; irresistible impulse
indigenous	native; Ex. plant indigenous to the New World
impolitic	not wise; not expedient; not politic
tryst	meeting arranged by lovers; arrangement between lovers to meet
spontaneity	lack of premeditation; naturalness; freedom from constraint; ADJ. spontaneous: self-generated; unpremeditated; happening without being planned
premeditate	plan in advance; Ex. premeditated murder
indemnify	make secure against damage or loss; compensate for damage or loss; CF. make uninjured
tempo	speed of music
mauve	pale purple
gallows	framework from which a noose is suspended (used for execution by hanging)
perspicuity	clearness of expression; freedom from ambiguity
deserts	what someone deserves
adjunct	something attached to but holding an inferior position
provisional	tentative; temporary
precarious	unsafe; lacking in stability; uncertain; risky; Ex. precarious living
log	record of a voyage or flight; record of day-to-day activities; section of a trunk; V.
broil	cook by direct heat; N.
flowery	full of flowers; full of ornate expressions
woe	great sorrow; deep inconsolable grief; affliction; suffering; Ex. financial woes
dynamic	energetic; vigorously active
rave	overwhelmingly favorable review; V: talk wildly as if mad; Ex. raving lunatic
boor	rude, insensitive person
poseur	person who pretends to be sophisticated, elegant, etc., to impress others; person who poses; CF. pose
abstract	theoretical; not concrete; nonrepresentational
headlong	hasty; rash; headfirst; ADV.
gentility	those of gentle birth; high social class; refinement; quality of being genteel
armada	fleet of warships
collaborate	work together; cooperate treasonably with the enemy
stupor	state of being stupefied; state of apathy; daze; lack of awareness
coeval	living at the same time as; existing during the same period of time; contemporary; of the same age
dissimulate	pretend; conceal by feigning; dissemble
tumult	commotion of a great crowd; riot; noise; uproar; ADJ. tumultuous: noisy and disorderly
valedictory	pertaining to farewell; N: farewell address (esp. at graduation exercises)
tutelage	guardianship; training; function of a tutor; instruction
phoenix	symbol of immortality or rebirth; Ex. phoenix rising from its ashes
invidious	designed to create ill will or envy; tending to rouse ill will or envy; Ex. invidious comparison
constraint	restraint; compulsion; repression of feelings; reticence; V. constrain: hold back; restrain; compel; oblige; confine forcibly; imprison
conjecture	surmise; guess; V.
matrimony	state of being married
extradition	surrender of prisoner by one state to another; Ex. extradition treaty; V. extradite
juggernaut	irresistible crushing force; overwhelming advancing force that crushes everything in its path
criteria	standards used in judging; CF. criterion
prattle	talk idly; babble; N. CF. prate
graphite	black form of carbon used in lead pencils
plait	braid; interwine; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; Ex. plaited hair; N: braided length as of hair o fabric; CF. pigtail, ponytail
baleful	evil; malignant in intent or effect; deadly; having a malign influence; portending evil; ominous; threatening; Ex. baleful look
oversee	watch over and direct; supervise; N. oversight: unintentional failure to notice or do something; supervision
concise	brief and compact
lurk	stealthily lie in waiting; slink; exist unperceived
disconcert	confuse; upset; embarrass; perturb
unanimity	complete agreement; ADJ. unanimous
emissary	agent (sent on a mission to represent another); messenger
sleight	dexterity; CF. sleight of hand: legerdemain; quickness of the hands in doing tricks
verbalize	put into words; ADJ. verbal: of words; spoken rather than written; oral; of a verb
figurine	small ornamental statuette(very small statue)
drivel	nonsense; foolishness; V: talk nonsense
seethe	be violently disturbed; boil; (of a liquid) move about wildly as if boiling; Ex. The nation was seething with discontent.
breed	produce young; rear; bring up; produce (an undesirable condition); N: kind or sort of animal or plant
conspiracy	treacherous plot; secret plan against the law (by two or more people)
restitution	returning something (lost or stolen) to the rightful owner; reparation; indemnification; compensation for loss, damage, or injury
swarthy	(of a skin or complexion) dark; dusky; Ex. swarthy Italian ?
canto	division of a long poem
adamant	hard; inflexible
callow	youthful; immature; inexperienced
ventriloquist	someone who can make his or her voice seem to come from another person or thing (without moving lips or jaws); N. ventriloquism, ventriloquy
epic	long heroic poem, novel, or similar work of art (celebrating the feats of a hero); ADJ: (of stories or events) resembling an epic; grand
sear	burn the surface of; char or burn; brand; parch; cause (a plant) to wither
scraps	leftover food
jumble	mix in a confused way
nausea	feeling of sickness and desire to vomit; disgust; CF. seasickness
tenet	doctrine; dogma
gargoyle	waterspout carved in grotesque figures on a building
unwarranted	unjustified; having no justification; groundless; baseless; undeserved
ensue	follow (as a result)
viscous	(of a liquid) thick and sticky; gluey; viscid; CF. consistency
sow	plant or scatter seed
endue	provide with some quality; endow
punctilious	minutely attentive (perhaps too much so) to fine points; stressing niceties of conduct or form; N. punctilio, punctiliousness: careful attention payed to every small exact detail
jettison	throw overboard (from a ship or plane)
derision	ridicule; ADJ. derisive; CF. derisory
convoluted	coiled around; twisted; involved; complicated; intricate; complex; N. convolution: twist; one of the convex folds of the surface of the brain
canter	slow gallop; V. CF. trot
cog	tooth projecting from a wheel
patriarch	father and ruler of a family or tribe
overturn	turn over; capsize; topple
wane	decrease in size or strength (after being full); grow gradually to an end; Ex. The moon waxes and wanes every month; N.
crinkle	wrinkle
cabal	 small group of persons secretly united to promote their own interests
fathom	comprehend; investigate; determine the depth of; N. unit of measurement for the depth of water
rancid	having the odor of stale or decomposing fat; rank
pillage	plunder
conjugal	pertaining to marriage
ciliated	having minute hairs; CF. cilium; CF. cilia: eyelash
analgesia	condition of being unable to feel pain
invective	abuse
distant	reserved or aloof; cold in manner; Ex. distant greeting; ADV. distantly
malediction	curse
unprecedented	having no previous example; novel; unparalleled
incantation	singing or chanting of magic spells; magical formula; (the saying of) words used in magic; CF. enchant
interregnum	period between two successive reigns or governments
submissive	willing to obey orders; yielding; timid
remittance	remitting of money; amount of money remitted
feline	of a member of the cat family; N.
fulcrum	support on which a lever rests or pivots
muster	gather; assemble (troops); Ex. muster up one's strength for the ordeal; N.
tightwad	miser; excessively frugal person
demean	disgrace; humiliate; debase in dignity; behave
artifice	deception; trickery
feature	distinctive part of the faces (as the eyes or mouth); features: overall appearance of the face; prominent or distinctive quality; prominent article; film; V: make prominent
taunt	deride or provoke; challenge in derision; N.
decant	pour off gently (wine or liquid)
lull	moment of calm; period of reduced activity; Ex. a lull in the rain; V: cause to become less active; cause to sleep or rest; Ex. lull the opponents into a false sense of security; CF. lullaby
magnitude	greatness (in size or extent); extent
farce	broad comedy; mockery; humorous play full of silly things happening; ADJ. farcical
calculated	deliberately planned; likely
enunciate	announce; proclaim; utter or speak, especially distinctly; pronounce clearly; articulate; Ex. This theory was first enunciated by him.
practical	based on experience; of or acquired through practice (rather than theory); useful; Ex. practical man
stint	supply; allotted amount of work; assigned portion of work; limitation; Ex. two-year stint in the army; Ex. without stint
incredulity	tendency to disbelief
prohibitive	so high as to prohibit purchase or use; tending to prevent the purchase or use of something; prohibiting; inclined to prevent or forbid; Ex. prohibitive tax
sophistry	seemingly plausible but fallacious reasoning; sophism
nondescript	undistinctive; ordinary; ordinary-looking; Ex. nondescript fellow in a crowd
contumacious	stubborn and disobedient; resisting authority (esp. disobedient to an order made by a court)
plaster	paste that hardens to a smooth solid and is used for coating walls; V.
winnow	sift; separate the chaff from grain by blowing; separate good parts from bad; CF. wind
callus	area of thick hard skin
evasive	not frank; trying to hide the truth; eluding; evading; V. evade: avoid (a duty or responsibility) or escape from by deceit
mandatory	obligatory; compulsory; of a mandate
dismiss	eliminate from consideration; no longer consider; put out of court without further hearing; reject; discharge from employment; direct to leave; ADJ. dismissive; N. dismissal
ploy	strategem to gain an advantage; tactic; Ex. management ploy
harry	harass, annoy, torment (by repeated attacks); raid
protocol	diplomatic etiquette; ceremony and etiquette observed by diplomats; first copy of a treaty before its ratification; Ex. Protocol demands that the queen meet him at the airport.
gloss_over	explain away with the intention of deceiving or hiding faults
buxom	full-bosomed; plump; jolly
gambit	opening in chess in which a piece is sacrificed; action made to produce a future advantage
monetary	pertaining to money
inter	bury; N. interment
protagonist	leader or noticeable supporter of an idea; chief character in a play or story
preternatural	beyond what is normal in nature; supernatural; Ex. preternatural strength/forces
inadvertently	unintentionally; by oversight; carelessly
revelry	boisterous merrymaking; V. revel: engage boisterous festivities; enjoy greatly; N: boisterous festivity or celebration
coup	highly successful action or sudden attack; coup(s) d'\'etat; CF. coup de gr\^ace: deathblow or shot which kills
woeful	sad; (of something bad) deplorable; deplorably bad; Ex. woeful housing conditions
anemia	condition in which blood lacks red corpuscles; ADJ. anemic
debase	degrade; reduce in quality or value; degenerate; lower in esteem; disgrace; N. debasement
leaven	add leaven to; cause to rise or grow lighter; enliven; N: agent, such as yeast, that causes dough to rise (by fermentation); element that lightens or enlivens
adjacent	adjoining; neighboring; close by
dogmatic	opinionated; holding stubbornly to one's opinion; arbitrary; doctrinal
amnesty	pardon (allowed by government to political criminals)
emblazon	ornament richly (a shield or flag); N. emblazonment
prong	pointed projecting part
consummate	complete; V.
inconsistency	state of being self-contradictory; lack of uniformity or steadiness; ADJ. inconsistent: displaying a lack of consistency; erratic; contradictory; incompatible
despot	tyrant; harsh, authoritarian ruler; CF. despotism
vital	full of life; animated; vibrant and lively; critical; of great importance; necessary to stay alive; of life; living; breathing; N. vitality; V. vitalize
pallid	pale; wan; Ex. pallid complexion
sextant	navigation tool used to determine a ship's latitude and longitude (by measuring the altitudes of stars)
qualified	limited; restricted; V. qualify: limit the meaning of; modify
cursory	casual; hastily done with little attention to detail
horoscope	diagram of the positions of stars at a given moment (eg. of a person's birth) used by astrologers
rampart	defensive mound of earth
incur	bring upon oneself
odoriferous	giving off an odor
cow	terrorize; intimidate
neophyte	recent convert; new member of a religious group; beginner; CF. plant
mercurial	capricious; quick and changing; fickle; containing the element mercury; Ex. mercurial temper; CF. mood
mishap	unfortunate accident
unearth	dig up; discover (facts) by careful searching; Ex. He unearthed some secrets about her; OP. conceal
abusive	coarsely insulting; physically harmful
outstrip	outrun; surpass; outdo
blunder	error; stupid mistake
restraint	moderation or self-control; controlling force; restriction
ovoid	egg-shaped; CF. ovum; CF. ovulate
censure	blame; criticize; express strong disapproval; N: severe criticism; strong disapproval
novice	beginner
assimilate	absorb; take (food) into the body and digest it; understand (knowledge) completely and be able to use properly; cause to become homogeneous (the people of a country or race in the wasy of behaving or thinking)
numismatist	person who collects coins; N. numismatics: study or collection of money, coins, and medals
disclose	reveal; N. disclosure
plaudit	praise; enthusiastic approval; round(succession or series) of applause; ADJ. plauditory; CF. applaud
pragmatic	practical (as opposed to idealistic); concerned with practical worth or impact of something; Ex. pragmatic test of the skill
discrepancy	lack of consistency or agreement as between facts; difference; Ex. discrepancy between two descriptions
deadpan	wooden; impassive; with no show of feeling; with an expressionless face
haunt	(of a spirit) visit (a place); come to mind continually; visit (a place) regularly; frequent; Ex. haunted house; Ex. haunted by his last words; N: place much frequented
affront	insult; offense; intentional act of disrespect; V: insult or hurt the feelings of intentionally
offensive	attacking; insulting; distasteful; V. offend: violate; hurt the feelings of; N. offense: offending; violating of a moral or social code; crime; attack; Ex. first offense
negate	cancel out; nullify; cause to have no effect; deny; N. negation
hybrid	mongrel; mixed breed; V. hybridize
gusto	eager enjoyment; zest; enthusiasm
infiltrate	pass into or through; penetrate or enter (an organization) sneakily; Ex. infiltrate the troops into enemy territory; CF. infiltrator
raucous	(of voice) harsh and unpleasant; (of people) disorderly and boisterous; Ex. raucous shouts
infer	deduce; conclude; N. inference
lampoon	ridicule; N: written attack ridiculing or satirizing a person, group, or institution
inverse	opposite
quaff	drink with zest; drink with relish(zest; hearty enjoyment); CF. sip
uncouth	boorish; clumsy in speech or behavior; outlandish
philanthropist	lover of mankind; doer of good; N. philanthropy
actuarial	calculating; pertaining to insurance statistics
nautical	pertaining to ships or navigation
frivolous	lacking in seriousness; flippant; self-indulgently carefree; unworthy of serious attention; relatively unimportant; trivial
cadence	rhythmic rise and fall (of words or sounds); beat; regular beat of sound; rhythm
maroon	leave helpless on a deserted island or coast; ADJ. red brown
anarchist	person who seeks to overturn the established government; advocate of abolishing authority
cater	provide food and drink (for); cater to: try to satisfy (desires of a bad kind)
immure	imprison; shut up in confinement; CF. wall
transitory	transient; impermanent; fleeting; N. transitoriness
calumny	malicious misrepresentation; slander
effectual	able to produce a desired effect; valid
expurgate	clean; remove offensive parts of a book
prowess	extraordinary ability; military bravery; Ex. prowess in battle
apologist	one who writes in defense of a cause or institution; N. apologia
orator	public speaker
sinecure	well-paid position with little responsibility; CF. sine cure: without care; CF. San Serif
sway	swing from side to side; influence (someone) to change one's opinion; N.
hierarchy	arrangement by rank or standing; authoritarian body divided into ranks; body of persons having authority
bombast	grandiloquent, pompous speech
mangle	tear or cut to pieces; mutilate or disfigure; Ex. badly mangled bodies
figment	invention; something invented; imaginary thing; Ex. figment of your imagination
totter	shake or move unsteadily; sway as if about to fall
meretricious	flashy; tawdry; attractive on the surface but of no real value; Ex. metericious argument/jewel; CF. prostitute
addiction	compulsive habitual need
prolific	producing offspring or fruit in abundance; fertile; fecund; abundantly fruitful; producing abundant works; Ex. prolific writer
calorific	heat-producing; N. calorie
pastiche	imitation of another's style in musical composition or in writing; work of art openly imitating the works of other artists
quintessence	purest and highest embodiment; perfect example; apotheosis; most essential element; Ex. quintessence of wit; ADJ. quintessential; CF. fifth essence
hilarity	boisterous mirth(merriment; laughter); ADJ. hilarious: full of laughter
anomalous	abnormal; irregular
lance	pierce with a lance; cut into; N: spearlike weapon
abode	dwelling place; home
historical	connected with history; based on events in history (whether regarded as important or not)
ulcer	sore place appearing on the skin inside or outside the body; Ex. stomach ulcer; ADJ. ulcerous; V. ulcerate
retrograde	go backwards; recede; degenerate; deteriorate; ADJ.
lilliputian	extremely small; CF. Lilliput in Gulliver's Travels
irretrievable	impossible to recover or regain; CF. retrieve
seine	seine net; net for catching fish
diadem	crown
taper	very thin candle; gradual decrease in the width of a long object; V. make or become gradually narrower toward one end
explicate	explain in detail; interpret; clarify; CF. explicable
oblivion	obscurity; condition of being completely forgotten; forgetfulness
interdict	prohibit; forbid; N.
vintner	wine merchant; winemaker; seller of wine
gargantuan	huge; enormous; gigantic; CF. the hero of Gargantua and Pantagruel
exhume	dig out of the ground; remove from a grave
eon(aeon)	long period of time; an age; longest division of geologic time containing two or more eras
facade(fa\c{c}ade)	front or face (of building); superficial or false appearance
mandate	order; charge; authoritative command; power to govern another country; power to given to a government; region under administration; V: give a mandate to; place under a mandate; Ex. mandated territory
trepidation	fear; nervous apprehension
smolder	smoulder; burn slowly without flame; be liable to break out at any moment; exist in a suppressed state; Ex. smoldering anger
puny	tiny; weak; insignificant
dotage	senility; feeblemindedness of old age; Ex. In one's dotage
barefaced	shameless and noticeable; blatant; bold; unconcealed; having no covering on the face; Ex. barefaced lie
repellent	driving away; disgusting; offensive; repulsive; unattractive; N.
depose	dethrone; remove from office; give a deposition; testify
tendentious	promoting a particular point of view; biased; having an aim; designed to further a cause; Ex. tendentious rather than truth-seeking; CF. tend: move in a certain direction
grouch	bad-tempered complaint; person who keeps complaining; V: complain; grumble
latitude	freedom from narrow limitations
blase	bored with pleasure or dissipation; uninterested or bored
animus	hostile feeling or intent; animosity; hostility; disposition
symbiosis	interdependent relationship (between groups, species) often mutually beneficial; ADJ. symbiotic; CF. together + life
doff	take off; OP. don
rescind	repeal; annul; cancel (a law, decision, or agreement)
propinquity	nearness (in space or relationship); proximity; kinship
millennium	thousand-year period (as in the New Testament); hoped-for period of happiness and prosperity
deface	mar; disfigure
induce	persuade; lead to do something; bring about; N. inducement
apathy	lack of caring; indifference; lack of concern or interest in important matters; Ex. He was sunk in apathy after his failure; ADJ. apathetic
percussion	striking one object against another sharply; Ex. percussion instrument; N: striking together of two bodies; sound caused by percussion
deducible	derived by reasoning; V. deduce: infer; derive by reasoning
shyster	lawyer using questionable methods; unscrupulous practioner
outrage	act of extreme violence or viciousness; resentful anger; V: commit an outrage on; produce anger in; ADJ. outrageous: offensive
ostensible	apparent; appearing as such; professed(pretended); pretended; Ex. ostensible purpose of the expedition
dormant	sleeping; temporarily inactive; lethargic; latent
addendum	addition; appendix to book; something that is added (as at the end of a speech or book)
pummel	pommel; beat or pound with fists
squash	crush; quash; suppress
plumber	one who installs and repairs pipes and plumbing(pipes)
skulduggery(skullduggery)	dishonest behavior or action; Ex. skulduggery in the election
weird	eerie; strange; unnatural
pith	core or marrow; spongelike substance in the center of stems; essence; substance
incentive	spur; motive; something which encourages one to greater activity
gestate	evolve as in prenatal growth; N. gestation: period of development from conception until birth
betroth	become engaged to marry
cringe	shrink back as if in fear; cower
hew	cut to pieces with ax or sword; chop; N.
dehydrate	remove water from; dry out
grotesque	fantastic; comically hideous; strange and unnatural (causing fear or amusement)
superficial	of the surface; not deep; shallow; not thorough; trivial; Ex. superficial analysis/knowledge
combustible	easily burned; N. CF. combustion
untoward	unexpected and adverse; unfortunate or unlucky; Ex. untoward encounter
sedentary	requiring sitting; done while sitting; not moving from one place to another; settled; Ex. sedentary job/population
harrowing	agonizing; distressing; traumatic; V. harrow: break up and level (soil) with a harrow; inflict great distress on; agonize; N: farming machine to break up the earth
sheathe	place into a case; insert into or provide with a sheath; Ex. He sheathed his dagger; N. sheath: case for a blade
gambol	romp; skip about; leap about playfully; frolic; N.
maxim	proverb; truth pithily stated
rag	scrap of cloth; ADJ. ragged: old and torn; seeming unfinished and imperfect; Ex. ragged debut/performance
fastidious	difficult to please; squeamish; fussy; finicky
prefigure	be a sign of; foreshadow
factious	inclined to form factions; causing dissension
flair	talent
equipoise	balance; balancing force; equilibrium
expropriate	take possession of (often for public use and without payment)
mire	entangle; stick in swampy ground; stick or sink in mire; N: bog; deep mud; Ex. sucked deeper into the mire
effervescence	inner excitement or exuberance; showing high spirits; emitting bubbles forming inside; bubbling from fermentation or carbonation; ADJ. effervescent; V. effervesce
facet	small plane surface (of a gem(precious stone)); a side
filibuster	block legislation or prevent action in a lawmaking body by making very slow long speeches; N; freebooter
peripheral	of a periphery; marginal; outer; of minor importance; not central; Ex. peripheral nerve/interest
obstreperous	boisterous; noisy and uncontrollable
inflated	exaggerated; pompous; enlarged (with air or gas)
phlegmatic	calm and unexcitable; not easily disturbed; CF. phlegm: sticky mucus produced in the respiratory tract
mortify	humiliate by embarassing excessively; shame; punish the flesh; discipline (one's body) by self-denial; Ex. mortified by her blunder; Ex. mortify the flesh; CF. cause to die
dissertation	formal essay; treatise
arid	(of land) dry; barren; unproductive
clip	cut off with shears; fasten; N: something clipped off (as a short extract from film); clasp or fastener
surmount	overcome
crass	very unrefined; grossly insensible; crude and undiscriminating; Ex. crass behavior
insouciant	without concern or care; unconcerned; indifferent
quack	 charlatan; impostor
estimable	(of a person) worthy of esteem; admirable; deserving esteem; possible to estimate
mangy	shabby; wretched; suffering from mange; of bad appearance
reprise	musical repetition; repeating of a piece of music; repeat performance; recurrent action; Ex. reprise in the finale; Ex. constant reprises
religious	of religion; (of a person) pious; having reverence for a deity
enjoin	command; order; forbid
misgivings	doubts
dank	damp; unpleasantly wet
abdicate	renounce; give up (position, right, or responsibility)
proletarian	member of the working class; blue collar guy; N. proletariat: working class (who have to work for wages)
indite	write; compose
specious	seemingly reasonable but incorrect; misleading (often intentionally)
fleece	wool coat of a sheep; V: shear the fleece from; rob by a trick; swindle; plunder
contortions	twistings; distortions; V. contort: twist violently out of shape; CF. contortionist
complementary	serving to complete something
lookout	act of keeping watch; high place commanding a wide view; person who keeps watch
prompt	cause; urge; provoke; provide a cue (for an actor); ADJ: done without delay; done at the right time; punctual; on time; N: reminder or cue
habitat	 natural home of a plant or animal; CF. habitation
wry	(esp. of an expression of the face) twisted; with a humorous twist (expressing displeasure)
stanza	division of a poem (composed of two or more lines)
clamber	climb by crawling with difficulties; scramble
gazette	official periodical publication; newspaper
ingenue	ing\'enue; young innocent girl
asteroid	small planet
authoritarian	subordinating the individual to the state; completely dominating another's will; Ex. authoritarian regime/father
surpass	exceed
vigilant	watchful; on the alert; watchfully awake; alert to spot danger; N. vigilance
dispel	scatter; drive away; cause to vanish
retiring	shy and reserved (of a person); modest; Ex. her retiring personality
skittish	inconstant; capricious; frivolous; not serious; Ex. charming but skittish young woman; CF. skit
archetype	prototype; primitive pattern
recuperate	recover; return to health; regain; Ex. recuperate losses
swamp	wetland; marsh; V: flood; overwhelm; drench in with liquid
monotony	sameness leading to boredom; monotonousness; ADJ. monotonous; CF. monotone
obsidian	black volcanic rock
faction	party; clique (within a large group); dissension
musky	having the odor of musk; N. musk: odorous substance secreted by an Asian deer
pernicious	very harmful; deadly; very destructive; Ex. pernicious effect/anemia
maraud	move in search of plunder; Ex. marauding army
embroider	decorate with needlework; ornament (a story) with fancy or fictitious details; embellish
obelisk	tall column tapering(becoming gradually narrower toward the end) and ending in a pyramid
piscatorial	pertaining to fishing; CF. Pisces
livid	lead-colored; black and blue (as from a bruise); ashen; enraged; extremely angry
edict	decree (especially one issued by a sovereign); official command
anesthetic	substance that removes sensation with or without loss of consciousness; N. anesthesia
inordinate	beyond reasonable limits; unrestrained; excessive; Ex. inordinate demands
substantial	of substance; material; solid; essential or fundamental; ample; considerable; well-to-do; wealthy
scintilla	trace; minute amount; shred; least bit; Ex. There is not a scintilla of truth; CF. spark
chauvinist	blindly devoted patriot; zealous adherent of a group, cause, or sex; ADJ. chauvinistic; CF. chauvinism; Nicolas Chauvin
fecundity	fertility; fruitfulness; ADJ. fecund: very productive of crops or young
transmute	transform; change; convert to something different
artful	exhibiting art or skill; deceitful; cunning; CF. artifice
barrage	barrier laid down by artillery fire; overwhelming profusion; large number of questions or statements; Ex. a barrage of criticism
emboss	produce a design in raised relief; decorate with a raised design
glaring	(of something bad) highly conspicuous; harshly bright; shining intensely and blindingly
accost	approach and speak first to a person
centurion	Roman army officer (commanding a company of about 100 soldiers)
quiver	tremble; shake; N.
emancipate	set free; liberate
elegy	poem or song expressing lamentation (for the dead); ADJ. elegiacal, elegiac
hap	chance; luck
agog	highly excited; intensely curious
secrete	conceal; hide away or cache; produce and release a substance into an organism; CF. secretive
mordant	biting; sarcastic; stinging; (apprec.) incisive; cutting; Ex. mordant pen/wit
foliage	masses of leaves; CF. defoliate
mace	ceremonial staff used as a symbol of authority; clublike medieval weapon
institution	instituting; (building for the) organization; established custom, practice, or relationship in a society; mental hospital; Ex. institution of marriage
peerless	having no equal; incomparable
optimist	person who looks on the bright side; N. optimism
dominant	exercising the most influence; high and easily seen; stronger than the other part of a system; not recessive
mutter	utter (complaining words) indistinctly in low tones
prime	period of ideal or peak condition; earliest or beginning stage; Ex. in the prime of life; Ex. prime of the year(spring); ADJ: first in importance or rank; first; V: make ready; prepare
drab	dull; lacking color; cheerless ; Ex. drab coat/life
pudding	hot sweet dish
expertise	specialized knowledge (in a particular field); expert skill
elope	run away secretly with the intention of getting married
friction	clash or conflict in opinion; rubbing against
bedraggle	wet thoroughly; ADJ. bedraggled: draggled
merit	deserve; ADJ. meritorious: deserving reward or praise
fatuous	smugly and unconsciously foolish; inane; silly; N. fatuity, fatuousness
drudgery	hard unpleasant work; menial work
mottled	blotched in coloring; spotted; Ex. mottled face; V. mottle: mark with blotches of different colors
magnate	person of prominence or influence; powerful or influential person (in business or industry); Ex. oil magnate
parquet	floor made of wood strips inlaid in a mosaic like matter; CF. strip: long narrow piece
concoct	prepare by mixing or combining; make up in concert; devise (something false) so as to deceive; Ex. concoct an elaborate excuse for being late; N. concoction
dais	raised platform for speakers or other important people
intervene	come between; interfere; Ex. intervened to prevent a fight; N. intervention
voodoo	religion practiced chiefly in Haiti
thespian	pertaining to drama; N: actor or actress
occult	mysterious; secret; supernatural; beyond human comprehension; CF. mysterious to human ?; OP. bare
grandeur	impressiveness; stateliness; majesty
tactful	careful no to cause offence; OP. tactless
fanaticism	excessive zeal; extreme devotion to a belief or cause; N. fanatic; ADJ. fanatic
inextricable	from which it is impossible to get free; that cannot be untied; Ex. inextricable troubles; Ex. inextricable two histories
gauche	clumsy (in social behavior); coarse and uncouth
debar	bar; forbid; exclude; Ex. debarred from jury services
browbeat	bully; intimidate
convention	social or moral custom; established practice; formal meeting; international agreement
pertinent	suitable; to the point; relevant
husbandry	frugality; thrift; economy; agriculture; farming; Ex. animal husbandry; CF. husbandman
psychopathic	pertaining to mental dearrangement; N. psychopath: person with an antisocial personality disorder
palimpsest	parchment or piece of writing material used for second time after original writing has been erased
shear	remove (fleece or hair) by cutting; remove the hair or fleece from; cut with or as if with shears; N: shears; pair of scissors
tawny	brownish yellow
outlaw	fugitive from the law (excluded from legal protection); V: declare (someone) to be an outlaw; deprive of the protection of the law; declare illegal; Ex. Drinking has been outlawed.
bode	foreshadow; portend
laity	laypersons; laymen; persons not connected with the clergy
healthy	possessing good health; healthful
abominable	detestable; extremely unpleasant
lofty	very high
glacial	like a glacier; of an ice age; extremely cold; Ex. glacial epoch; CF. iceberg
formality	ceremonious quality; ceremonious adherence to rules; something done just for form's sake; Ex. mere formality
subjective	influenced by personal feelings; occurring or taking place within the mind; unreal; Ex. subjective sensation of the ghostly presence
invocation	prayer for help (used in invoking); calling upon as a reference or support; act of invoking
unintimating	unfrightening
sumptuous	grand suggesting great expense; lavish; rich; Ex. sumptuous feast
nocturnal	done or active at night; Ex. nocturnal animals/raids; CF. nocturne
menagerie	collection of wild animals on exhibition; zoo
bliss	complete happiness; ADJ. blissful
contraband	illegal trade; smuggling; smuggled goods; ADJ.
standstill	condition of no movement or activity; stop
reciprocate	do or give something in return; repay in kind; give or take mutually; interchange; move
hothead	person who does things too quickly without thinking; ADJ. hotheaded
bask	luxuriate; take pleasure in warmth
sodden	thoroughly soaked; dull or stupid as if from drink
corrugated	wrinkled; ridged
ineffectual	not effective; not having a desired effect; weak
embrace	hug; clasp with the arms; adopt or espouse; accept readily; encircle; include; Ex. embrace the cause/socialism; Ex. all-embracing; CF. brace; CF. bracelet
aboriginal	being the first of its kind in a region; primitive; native; indigenous; N. aborigine
mendacious	lying; habitually dishonest; N. mendacity
disband	dissolve; disperse; (of a group) break up and separate; Ex. The club has disbanded.
emaciated	thin and wasted (from hunger or illness)
stricture	severe and adverse criticism; critical comments; limit or restriction
infallible	unerring; never making mistakes
solemnity	seriousness; gravity
enormity	hugeness (in a bad sense); excessive wickedness; Ex. enormity of the crime; ADJ. enormous
breadth	width; extent
sidereal	relating to stars; Ex. sidereal day
immaculate	spotless; flawless; absolutely clean
reconcile	make friendly again (after quarrel); make consistent (two ideas in opposition); correct inconsistencies; Ex. reconcile one's political principles with one's religious beliefs
euphemism	mild expression in place of an unpleasant one; ADJ. euphemistic
wholesome	conducive to mental or physical health; healthful
recondite	abstruse; not easily understood; profound; secret
benediction	blessing
dissident	dissenting (with an opinion, a group, or a government); rebellious; N.
patrician	noble; aristocratic; N: person of high rank; aristocrat; CF. member of the governing classes in ancient Rome; CF. plebian
padre	chaplain (in the armed forces)
fervid	ardent; zealous; hot
subpoena	writ(written command issued by a court) summoning a witness to appear in court; V: summon with a subpoena
kneel	go down on one's knee(s)
ransack	search thoroughly; pillage (going through a place); Ex. Enemy soldiers ransacked the town.
gape	open widely; open the mouth wide; stare wonderingly with the mouth open; CF. agape
stammer	speak with involuntarily pauses or repetitions
bank	heap; piled-up mass; embankment; lateral tilting (as of an aircraft in turning); V: pile up; protect with a bank; tilt in turning
dispatch	speediness; prompt execution; message sent with all due speed; V: send to a specified destination; finish promptly; kill
latch	fastening or lock consisting of a movable bar that fits into a notch; V: close with a latch
ego	one's opinion of oneself; self-esteem
polygamist	one who has more than one spouse at a time; CF. bigamy; CF. polyandry
defalcate	embezzle
frolicsome	prankish; gay; playful; merry; frisky
eulogistic	praising; full of eulogy
intransigence	refusal of any compromise; stubbornness; ADJ. intransigent: uncompromising
eerie	weird; causing fear because strange
doze	sleep lightly; nap
manifest	evident; visible; obvious; V: show plainly
buttress	support; prop up; N. stationary structure to support wall; Ex. flying buttress
acumen	mental keenness; sharpness of judgment; ability to judge quickly and well; Ex. business acumen
pharisee	Pharisee: member of an ancient Jewish group that emphasized strict observance of the Mosaic law (considering themselves very holy); hypocritical self-righteous person
amphitheater	oval building with tiers of seats; CF. arena
wanderlust	strong longing to travel
esoteric	hard to understand; known only to the chosen few, esp. initiates; N. esoterica
lag	move or develop more slowly; straggle; Ex. lag behind the rest; N.
indelible	not able to be erased
historic	important in history; Ex. historic battle
remiss	negligent; careless about a duty
amalgam	combination of different things; mixture of metals (containing mercury) used for filling holes in teeth
internecine	mutually destructive
contrived	unnatural and forced; artificial; not spontaneous; Ex. The ending was rather contrived.
effete	having lost one's original power; barren; worn out; exhausted
lineage	descent; ancestry
pan	criticize harshly
personify	represent (an inanimate object) as a person; be the embodiment or perfect example of; Ex. She is evil/patience personified; N. personification
libretto	text of an opera or oratorio; CF. book
silt	sediment deposited by running water (at the entrance to a harbor or by a bend in a river)
conservatory(conservatoire)	school of the fine arts (especially music or drama); glass-enclosed area; CF. conservancy
carapace	shell covering the back (of a turtle, tortoise, crab, etc.)
tact	skill or sensitivity in dealing with people without causing offence
cataract	great waterfall; eye abnormality (causing a gradual loss of eyesight)
astral	relating to the stars
Elysium	place or condition of bliss
mediocre	ordinary; commonplace; neither good nor bad
gamely	in a spirited manner; with courage; Ex. fight gamely against a superior boxer; ADJ. game
marginal	of a margin; barely within a limit; Ex. marginal effect/writing ability
tangible	able to be touched; real; concrete; palpable; possible to realize or understand; Ex. tangible proof
malaise	uneasiness; vague feeling of ill health (without any particular pain or appearance of disease)
retrieve	recover; put right; find and bring in; regain; Ex. retrieve the situation
finite	limited
hyperbole	exaggeration; overstatement; ADJ. hyperbolic: of hyperbole; of a hyperbola
apex	tip; summit; climax; highest point
pastoral	rural; of rural life; idyllic; of a pastor
begrudge	envy; give or allow unwillingly; grudge; Ex. We shouldn't begrudge him his success.
sultry	(of weather) hot; sweltering; sensual; voluptuous
margin	border; room; allowance beyond what is needed; Ex. margin of safety
spoonerism	accidental transposition of sounds in successive words; Ex. ``Let me sew you to your sheet'' for ``Let me show you to your seat''; CF. William Spooner
executive	person having administrative authority; one branch of government executing laws; ADJ: relating to executing
smirk	conceited smile; offensively self-satisfied smile (often at someone else's misfortune); V.
unique	without an equal; single in kind
thrifty	careful about money; economical; N. thrift
concede	admit; acknowledge as being true (often reluctantly); yield; grant; Ex. concede a goal
sprout	begin to grow; give off shoots or buds; N: new growth on a plant; shoot
manifold	many in number or kind; numerous; varied
indulge	yield to; gratify; allow oneself a special pleasure; Ex. indulge one's every whim/a child/in a big cigarette; N. indulgence
franchise	right or privilege granted by authority; right to vote; license to sell a product in a particular territory
nullify	make invalid; make null; invalidate
acetic	vinegary
inculcate	teach (ideas or principles); instill
tinge	give a slight degree of a color or quality to; N: slight degree of a color or quality; Ex. tinged with grey/jealousy
submerge	place under water; dip; go under water; cover completely (as with water); Ex. submerged in work
glare	shine intensely and blindingly; stare fixedly and angrily; N.
grouse	complain; fuss; grumble; grouch; N: plump chickenlike game bird
antiquity	quality of being very old; ancient times;
canker	any ulcerous sore; ulcer; any evil; CF. cancer
ogle	look at amorously; make eyes at; Ex. old men ogling young girls
exhort	urge (by strong argument or advice); Ex. The general exhorted his men to fight bravely; N. exhortation
cite	quote; commend; Ex. cited for bravery in an official record
adversary	opponent; enemy
yoke	join together; unite; N: crossbar used to joining two draft animals
obstetrician	physician specializing in delivery(assisting in giving birth) of babies; N. obstetrics; CF. midwife
coma	deep prolonged unconsciousness caused by disease, poison, or a severe blow
punitive	punishing; Ex. punitive measures
aviary	enclosure for birds; large cage
nonplus	put at a loss; bring to a halt by confusion; perplex; CF. no more
hortatory	encouraging; exhortive; marked by exhortation; CF. exhort
blunt	having a dull edge; abrupt and frank in speech or manner; brusque; V: make or become blunt
pacify	soothe; make calm or quiet; subdue; bring peace to
evince	show clearly
chimerical	fantastically improbable; highly unrealistic; N. chimera: unreal fancy; fire-breathing female creature
flourish	grow well; prosper; make sweeping gestures; wave; brandish; Ex. The trees flourished in the sun. N: showy movement or gesture; embellishment or ornamentation (esp. in handwriting)
piety	devoutness; reverence for God; ADJ. pious
pedagogue	teacher; CF. child leader
opprobrium	infamy; disgrace arising from shameful conduct; vilification(slander); scorn; contempt; Ex. opprobrium hurled against him; ADJ. opprobrious: expressing contempt; shameful or infamous
august	impressive; majestic
bristling	rising like bristles; showing irritation
inkling	hint; slight indication
blighted	suffering from a disease; destroyed
pedestal	support or base as for a pillar or statue
allegory	story, play, or picture in which characters are used as symbols; fable
insurrection	rebellion; uprising
spare	give; use; refrain from harming; save from experiencing; exempt; Ex. spare me 5 minutes; Ex. Take this money and spare my life; Ex. The emperor was spared the onus; ADJ: kept in reserve; free for other use; unoccupied; Ex. spare time
harbinger	forerunner (which foreshadows what is to come)
definitive	most reliable; authorative and complete; that cannot be improved; conclusive; decisive; definite; Ex. definitive decision by the supreme court
traumatic	(of an experience) deeply shocking; pertaining to an injury caused by violence; N. trauma: serious wound; emotional shock that causes lasting psychological damage
negligence	neglect; failure to take reasonable care; ADJ. negligent: neglectful; lax; not taking enough care
decimate	kill (usually one out of ten or every tenth man); destroy or kill a large part of
apprehend	arrest (a criminal); dread; perceive; N. apprehension
waft	move gently (in air or in seas) by wind or waves; Ex. leaves wafting past the window
capitulate	surrender; give up all resistance
remit	transmit (money) in payment; free someone from a debt or punishment
exempt	not subject to a duty or obligation; free from a duty; V.
snub	ignore or behave coldly toward; Ex. I made a suggestion but she snubbed me; N.
impetuous	violent; hasty; rash; impulsive; without careful thought; Ex. impetuous decision
spate	sudden flood or rush; Ex. spate of accidents
wizened	shriveled; withered; Ex. wizened apple/old lady
recess	pause; temporary cessation; alcove; secret inner place; Ex. parliament in recess; V. CF. recessive
prod	poke (with a pointed object); stir up; urge; goad to action; N: pointed object used to prod; prodding
liquidate	settle accounts; pay off (a debt); clear up; eliminate; kill or abolish
hindmost	furthest behind; farthest to the rear
cipher	nonentity; worthless person or thing; zero; secret code; V.
dumbfound(dumfound)	astonish (making dumb); ADJ. dumbfounded, dumfounded, dumbstruck
unrequited	not requited; not reciprocated; Ex. unrequited love
primp	groom oneself with care; adorn oneself
avid	greedy; extremely eager for; Ex. avid learner; N. avidity
imbroglio	complicated situation (as in a play); painful or complex misunderstanding (as in a play); entanglement; confused mass (as of papers); V. embroil
dissuade	persuade not to do; discourage; N. dissuasion
agrarian	pertaining to land or its cultivation; Ex. agrarian reform
meddlesome	interfering; V. meddle: interfere
senility	old age; feeblemindedness of old age; ADJ. senile: resulting from old age; showing the weakness of body or mind from old age; Ex. senile dementia
throng	crowd (of people or things); V.
rider	amendment or clause added to a legislative bill
memorial	something, such as a monument or holiday, intended to honor the memory of a person or event; ADJ: commemorative
sere	sear; parched; dry
kinetic	producing motion; of motion
bard	poet
exorcise	drive out evil spirits
jurisdiction	right and power to apply the law; authority
coin	make coins; invent or fabricate (a word or phrase); N. coinage: word or phrase recently invented
yore	time long past; Ex. in the days of yore
anthology	book of literary selections by various authors; CF. omnibus
carafe	glass water bottle; decanter
knack	special talent; art
bastard	illegitimate child
salacious	lascivious; lustful; Ex. salacious monk
incumbent	obligatory; imposed as an obligation; currently holding an office; N: person who holds an office
momentum	quantity of motion of a moving body; impetus; moving force
crave	desire; want intensely
muggy	(of weather) warm and damp
outlandish	bizzare; peculiar; unconventional
scuttle	sink (a ship) by cutting holes in the hull; scrap; discard; N: small hatch in a ship's deck or hull
clairvoyant	having foresight; fortuneteller; N. clairvoyance
responsiveness	state of reacting readily to appeals, orders, etc.; ADJ. responsive: readily reacting; Ex. responsive to treatment
aspersion	slanderous remark; Ex. cast aspersions on
condescend	(derog.) bestow courtesies with a superior air; descend to the level of one considered inferior
glean	gather leavings; gather grain left behind by reapers; gather bit by bit (facts or information) often with difficulty
pungent	stinging; acrid; sharp in taste or smell; (of speech or writing) caustic; N. pungency
killjoy	grouch; spoilsport; one who intentionally spoils the pleasure of others
censor	(in ancient Rome) overseer of morals (also taking the census); person who eliminates inappropriate matter; V.
corporeal	bodily (rather than spiritual); of a bodily form; material; tangible
collage	work of art put together from fragments
vendetta	blood feud (esp. between two families); CF. Nina Williams
morgue	mortuary; place where bodies are kept before burial or cremation
behoove(behove)	be suited to; be incumbent upon; be right and necessary; Ex. It behooves one to do.
mundane	worldly as opposed to spiritual; everyday; of the ordinary; Ex. mundane existence; CF. world
refurbish	renovate; make clean, bright, or fresh (make new) again; make bright by polishing; Ex. refurbish an old theater; CF. furbish: polish
culmination	highest point; climax; V. culminate in: reach the highest point in; end in; Ex. a series of minor clashes culminating in war
abjure	renounce upon oath
vulpine	like a fox; crafty
haggard	wasted away; gaunt; Ex. haggard faces of the rescued miners
scotch	stamp out(put an end to); thwart; hinder; Ex. scotch the rumor; CF. cut; CF. ?????? ??????? ????
premise	assumption; postulate; proposition upon which an argument is based
apothegm(apophthegm)	pithy, compact saying
gnarl	protruding knot on a tree; V.
posterity	descendants; future generations; Ex. go down to posterity; CF. posterior, anterior
prophylactic	used to prevent disease; N: something prophylactic; condom; N. prophylaxis: prevention of disease
mogul	powerful person; Ex. oil moguls; CF. Mogol, Moghul; CF. Mongolian
vanguard	forerunners; foremost position of an army; advance forces; foremost position in a trend or movement; CF. rearguard
taciturn	habitually silent; talking little
entail	make necessary; require; necessitate; involve; limit the inheritance of (property) to a specified succession of heirs; Ex. entail A on/upon B
ebullient	showing excitement; overflowing with enthusiasm; boiling; N. ebullience; N. ebullition: state of boiling
satiate	satisfy fully (physical needs such as hunger); sate; N. satiety: condition of being satiated
perimeter	outer boundary; length of the outer boundary; circumference
shrewd	clever; astute
fortitude	bravery; courage; strength of mind
savant	scholar; learned person; CF. savoir: know
sacrosanct	invioably sacred; most sacred; inviolable
propellant(propellent)	substance which propels or drives forward (such as an explosive charge or a rocket fuel)
reputed	supposed; Ex. reputed father of the child; V. repute: consider; N. repute: reputation; esteem
malingerer	one who feigns illness to escape duty; V. malinger: feign illness to avoid work
meditation	reflection; thought; V. meditate
ostentatious	showy; trying to attract attention; pretentious; N. ostentation: showy display
studied	carefully contrived; calculated; unspontaneous; deliberate; thoughtful; Ex. studied remark
stigma	token of disgrace; brand; V. stigmatize: mark with a stigma; characterize as disgraceful
innocuous	harmless
climactic	relating to the highest point; N. climax; CF. climatic
complement	complete; consummate; make perfect; N.
beware	be cautious (of)
tithe	tax of one-tenth (contributed to a church); V: pay a tithe
putrid	decayed and foul-smelling; foul; rotten; decayed; N. putridity
boost	lift by pushing up from below; increase; raise; N: push upward; increase
demise	death
megalomania	mania for doing grandiose things; mental disorder characterized by delusions of wealth, power, or importance
unmitigated	(of something bad) not moderated; unrelieved or immoderate; without qualification; absolute; Ex. unmitigated disaster
disparity	difference; condition of inequality; OP. parity
braid	plait; interweave strands or lengths of; make by weaving strands together; N: braided segment (as of hair)
coddle	treat gently; indulge excessively; pamper; mollycoddle; baby; cook in water just below boiling point; Ex. coddled eggs
avocation	secondary or minor occupation
asinine	stupid; Ex. asinine remarks
penitent	repentant; N.
upshot	outcome; final result
supple	flexible; limber; pliant
discursive	(of a person or writing) digressing; rambling (without any clear plan)
absolute	complete; totally unlimited; having complete power; certain; not relative; Ex. absolute honesty/ruler; CF. absolutism
countenance	approve; support; tolerate; Ex. countenance his rude behavior; N: face; appearance
toss	throw lightly; move or lift (the head) with a sudden motion; flip (a coin) to decide something
egotism	tendency to speak or write of oneself excessively; conceit; self-importance
forensic	suitable to debate or courts of law; of or used in legal proceedings and the tracking of criminals; Ex. forensic science/medicine
dilettante	aimless follower of an art or a field of knowledge (not taking it seriously); amateur; dabbler; CF. delight
choleric	hot-tempered; bad-tempered; irritable; easily angered; CF. cholera
defoliate	destroy leaves; deprive of leaves (by the use of chemicals); N. defoliant
niggle	spend too much time on minor points (esp. when finding fault); find fault; Ex. niggle over details; ADJ. niggling
credo	creed
fluted	having vertical parallel grooves (as in a pillar); V. flute: make long parallel inward curves in; N. flute: long rounded groove incised on the shaft of a column
humid	damp; N. humidity
surfeit	satiate; feed or supply to excess; stuff; indulge to excess in anything; N: surfeiting; excessive amount; Ex. surfeit of food
pervasive	spread throughout; V. pervade: (of smells, ideas, feelings) spread throughout; charge; permeate
blurt	utter impulsively from nervousness or excitement
lurid	wild; sensational; graphic; gruesome; horrible; Ex. lurid details of the murder
hackneyed	commonplace; trite
masticate	chew
resound	(of a place) be filled with sound; (of a sound) sound loudly; sound back; echo; Ex. hall resounded with laughter
ostracize	banish from a group; exclude from public favor; ban; Ex. His friends ostracized him. N. ostracism
timbre	quality of a musical tone produced by a musical instrument (which distinguishes it from others of the same pitch)
omnivorous	eating both plant and animal food; devouring everything
frugality	thrift; economy; ADJ. frugal: practicing economy; costing little; inexpensive
staccato	played in an abrupt manner; marked by abrupt sharp sound; Ex. staccato applause
olfactory	concerning the sense of smell
stymie	thwart; present an obstacle; stump
recreant	disloyal; cowardly; N: disloyal and cowardly person
propound	put forth for consideration or analysis; set forth; Ex. propound a problem/theory
thrash	beat with a whip or flail; defeat utterly; talk about thoroughly in order to find the answer; move wildly or violently; Ex. The fishes thrashed about in the net.
blare	loud or harsh roar or screech; dazzling blaze of light
alleviate	relieve (pain)
legislature	legislating branch of government; CF. legislate: make laws
ambiguous	unclear or doubtful in meaning; having more than one possible interpretation
ratify	approve formally; confirm; verify
reputable	respectable; having a good reputation
apoplexy	stroke; loss of consciousness caused by too much blood in the brain
finery	beautiful clothes for a special occasion
random	without definite purpose, plan, or aim; haphazard; Ex. random shots; Ex. chosen at random
suffragist	advocate of the extension of voting rights (for women); CF. suffrage
respite	time for rest; interval of relief; delay in punishment; reprieve
fussy	fastidious; finicky; easily upset
enfranchise	admit to the rights of citizenship (especially the right to vote); CF. franchise
despoil	plunder; sack; Ex. despoil the village
analgesic	causing insensitivity to pain; N.
abstinence	restraint from pleasant things, esp. eating or drinking; CF. abstention: act of abstaining from vote
downcast	disheartened; dejected; sad; directed downward
flaccid	flabby; lacking firmness; weak; Ex. flaccid muscles
oblique	indirect; slanting (deviating from the perpendicular or from a straight line); Ex. oblique reference
sullen	silently showing ill humor or resentment; dark; gloomy
fleet	fast; rapid; N. ADJ. fleeting: passing quickly; ephemeral
jeopardize	endanger; imperil; put at risk; N. jeopardy: danger
epilogue	short speech at conclusion of dramatic work
nostalgia	homesickness; longing for the past; Ex. nostalgia for the clothes of 1920s; ADJ. nostalgic
promontory	headland
annul	make void
impudence	impertinence; insolence
desolate	make desolate; forsake; abandon and desert
pedigree	ancestry; lineage
impenitent	not repentant
edifice	building (of imposing size)
magisterial	authoritative; imperious; commanding; of a magistrate; Ex. magisterial study of Roman law; Ex. magisterial manner
accede	agree
waver	move or swing back and forth; be uncertain or unsteady in decision or movement; Ex. wavering between accepting and refusing
iridescent	exhibiting rainbowlike colors; Ex. iridescent oil slick; N. iridescence
juncture	crisis; point in time; joining point; joint; act of joining
encumber	burden; N. encumbrance
ballast	heavy substance used to add stability or weight; V. supply with ballast
industrious	diligent; hard-working; N. industry
replete	fully filled; filled to the brim or to the point of being stuffed; abundantly supplied; Ex. report replete with errors
servitude	slavery; compulsory labor imposed as a punishment
perforate	pierce; put a hole through
concordat	formal agreement
disperse	scatter; Ex. disperse the cloud/crowd
accomplice	partner in crime
plumb	exactly vertical; N: weight on the end of a line; V: examine very carefully or critically in order to understand; measure depth (by sounding); Ex. plumb the depth of
cataclysm	deluge; upheaval; earthquake; violent and sudden event or change
chronic	long established as a disease
faze	disconcert; dismay; embarrass
matin\'ee(matinee)	dramatic or musical performance given in the afternoon
grim	causing great fear; unrelenting; determined in spite of fear; Ex. grim smile
title	name (of a book, film, etc.); mark of rank; formal appellation as of rank or office (such as Lord or General); right or claim to possession; championship; Ex. title as head of the family; Ex. title to the estate
graduate	arrange into categories or grades; divide into marked intervals (for use in measurement); Ex. graduated ruler
consensus	general agreement; opinion reached by a group
compunction	remorse; strong uneasiness caused by guilt
pose	assume a particular posture; put forward; present; affect a particular attitude (to impress others); Ex. pose a threat; N.
choreography	art of representing dances in written symbols; arrangement of dances
swipe	hit with a sweeping motion; N.
salient	prominent; projecting beyond a line; conspicuous; Ex. salient features
masquerade	wear a mask or disguise; pretend; N: costume party or ball at which masks are worn; pretense; disguise
complacency	self-satisfaction; smugness; ADJ. complacent
kindred	related; belonging to the same group; similar in nature or character; Ex. kindred languages; N: relative; kin; kinship
termination	end; V. terminate
botch	mismanage; blow
list	tilt (as of a ship); lean over (to one side)
biennial	every two years
throb	(of a heart or machine) beat rapidly or violently; N. Ex. hearthrob: heartbeat; sweetheart
smug	self-satisfied; complacent
scabbard	case for a sword blade; sheath
unequivocal	plain; clear; obvious
elicit	draw out fact or information (by discussion or from someone)
nuance	shade of slight difference in meaning or color; subtle distinction
effusion	pouring forth; unrestrained outpouring of feeling; V. effuse: pour out; ADJ. effusive: pouring forth; gushing
allegiance	loyalty
imperil	put in danger
caliber	ability; quality; diameter of the inside of a round cylinder; Ex. work of very high caliber
visceral	felt in one's inner organs; N. viscera: internal body organs; CF. eviscerate
invulnerable	incapable of injury; impossible to damage or injure
pedant	scholar who overemphasizes book learning, trivial details of learning, or technicalities
guffaw	boisterous laughter; V.
entreat	plead; ask earnestly
foppish	vain about dress and appearance; N. fop: man who takes too much interest in his clothes and appearance
refulgent	effulgent; brilliant; brightly shining; gleaming; Ex. refulgent moon
transition	going from one state of action to another
coalition	partnership; league; union of separate political parties
serenity	calmness; placidity; ADJ. serene
enduring	lasting; surviving; V. endure: bear (pain or suffering) for a long time; remain alive (in spite of difficulties); last; survive
throes	violent anguish
fawning	courting favor by cringing and flattering; V. fawn: exhibit affection as a dog; seek favor or attention by obsequiousness
resolve	decide; settle; solve; separate; make a determined decision; N. resolution
motif	theme; recurrent thematic element in a musical or literary work; single or repeated pattern; figure
slur	pronounce indistinctly; speak indistinctly; mumble
atheistic	denying the existence of God; N. atheism
vulture	carrion-eating birds
rococo	ornate; highly decorated; N. CF. 18th century
redolent	odorous; fragrant; suggestive (of an odor); Ex. redolent of onions/mystery
garnish	decorate; add a garnish to; decorate (food or drink) with small items such as lemon slices; N.
culprit	one guilty of a crime
ecclesiastic	ecclesiastical; pertaining to the church; N: minister; priest; cleric; clergyman
aerie(aery,eyrie,eyry)	nest of a large bird of prey
fanciful	whimsical; visionary; imaginary; produced by imagination; Ex. fanciful scheme
atypical	not normal; not typical
sober	serious; solemn; not drunken; abstemious or temperate; V: make or become sober
acclaim	applaud; praise; greet with great approval; announce with great approval; Ex. The new drung has been acclaimed as the most important discoveries for years; N: strong expression of approval and praise
charm	quality of pleasing; amulet; action or formula thought to have magical power; spell; V: attract; cast a spell on; bewitch
suppress	put an end to forcibly; subdue; stifle; overwhelm; inhibit the expression of; check; prevent from being published or made public; Ex. suppress a smile; Ex. suppress the magazine/truth
condign	adequate; (of punishment) severe and well deserved
importunate	urging; always demanding; troublesomely urgent or persistent
temporal	of time; not lasting forever; limited by time; temporary; secular; worldly
siren	apparatus for making sounds; womanlike creature
obsessive	related to thinking about something constantly; of an obsession; preoccupying; N. obsession: compulsive preoccupation with a fixed idea; compulsive idea; V. obsess: preoccupy the mind of excessively
writ	written command issued by a court (telling someone to do or not to do something)
awe	solemn wonder; feeling of respect mixed with wonder and fear; V: fill with awe; ADJ. awesome
forge	counterfeit; reproduce fraudulently; form by heating in a forge and hammering into shape; move with a sudden increase of speed or power; Ex. forged ahead in the last two years; N: furnace where metals are heated
muddle	confuse; mix up confusedly; N: state of confusion
supererogatory	superfluous; more than needed or demanded
furtive	stealthy; quiet and secret (trying to escape notice); sneaky; Ex. furtive glance
waffle	speak equivocally about an issue; N.
haven	place of safety; refuge; harbor; Ex. tax haven
harass	annoy by repeated attacks
rendezvous	meeting place; meeting at a set time or place; V.
rue	regret; lament; mourn; Ex. He will rue the day; N. ADJ. rueful
precipitant	something that causes a substance in a chemical solution to separate out in solid form; OP. solvent
maim	mutilate; injure lastingly; disable; cripple; Ex. maimed for life
dissection	analysis; cutting apart in order to examine
antiquated	obsolete; old-fashioned; outdated
anguish	acute pain; extreme suffering
effeminate	having womanly traits
decollete	(of a dress) having a low-cut neckline; CF. d\'ecolletage: low neckline (on a dress)
cascade	small waterfall
acclivity	sharp upslope of a hill; OP. declivity
cavil	quibble; make frivolous objections; find fault unnecessarily
ford	place where a river can be crossed on foot; V.
humanitarian	one devoted to the promotion of human welfare; CF. humanism
epicurean	believing that pleasure is good and suffering is bad and should be avoided; N.
torpedo	underwater explosive apparatus; V.
agenda	items of business at a meeting
levee	earthen or stone embankment to prevent flooding; CF. raise
enmity	ill will; hatred; hostility
icon(ikon)	religious image; idol; image or representation
docket	program as for trial; book where such entries are made; list of things to be done; agenda; label fixed to a package listing contents or directions; V: describe in a docket
optician	maker and seller of eyeglasses
epoch	period of time
exiguous	small in amount; minute
demolition	destruction; V. demolish
intrinsic	essential; inherent; built-in
heckler	person who verbally harasses others; V. heckle: verbally harass as with gibes (by interrupting a speaker or speech)
isotope	varying from of an element
fuddle	make stupid or confused as with alcholic drink; N. in a fuddle: confused
deranged	insane
canvass	determine or seek opinions, votes, etc.; go through (a region) to solicit votes or orders; conduct a survey; N.
foster	rear; bring up (for a certain period only); encourage; promote the development of (feelings or ideas); Ex. help foster friendly relations; ADJ: giving parental care although not related by blood; Ex. foster parents
scrappy	quarrelsome
lackadaisical	lacking interest or effort; lacking purpose or zest; lazy; halfhearted; languid
reprobation	severe disapproval; CF. approbation
compatible	harmonious; in harmony with; able to exist together
facsimile	copy
prance	move about in a spirited manner (proudly and confidently)
variegated	(esp. of a flower or leaf) many-colored
anthropoid	manlike; resembling a human being; N.
notoriety	disrepute; ill fame
septic	of or causing sepsis; putrid; producing putrefaction; N. sepsis: poisoning of part of the body (producing pus)
sanguine	optimistic; cheerful; hopeful; of the color of blood; red
impending	nearing; approaching; about to happen
flay	strip off skin; plunder; remove the skin from; criticize harshly
ceremonious	marked by formality; extremely formal and polite; CF. ceremony: conventional social courtesy
quotidian	daily; commonplace; customary; Ex. quotidian routine
gruff	rough-mannered; (of a voice) rough; hoarse
intrepid	fearless
cohabit	live together
incline	slope; slant; Ex. steep incline
propriety	fitness; quality of being proper; correct conduct; conformity to prevailing customs and usages; CF. proprietor, proprietary
ravel	fall apart into tangles; entangle; unravel or untwist
evanescent	fleeting; vanishing; soon disappearing; V. evanesce
astigmatism	eye defect which prevents proper focus; OP. stigmatism
compute	reckon; calculate
hazardous	dangerous
abide	dwell; abide by: comply with; put up with; tolerate; Ex. abide by the rules; Ex. I can't abide rude people.
erratic	odd; irregular in movement or behavior; unpredictable
squalor	condition of being squalid; filth; degradation; dirty neglected state; ADJ. squalid: dirty; sordid; morally repulsive; Ex. squalid story
abscond	depart secretly and hide
beget	father; become the father of; produce; give rise to
warble	(of a bird) sing; babble; N.
extort	wring from; get money by threats, etc.; obtain by force or threats; CF. extortionate: exorbitant
arroyo	gully; narrow channel formed by rainwater
parlance	language; manner of speaking; idiom; Ex. in legal/common parlance
peregrination	journey; V. peregrinate
aphasia	loss of speech due to injury or illness
attenuate	make thin; weaken
ruminate	chew over and over (mentally or, like cows, physically); mull over(ponder)
preposterous	absurd; completely unreasonable; ridiculous
windfall	fallen fruit; unexpected lucky event
titter	nervous giggle; nervous laugh; V.
expletive	meaningless word; interjection; profane oath; swear-word
pliant	flexible; easily influenced
motto	brief statement used to express a principle
marital	pertaining to marriage
ebb	(of the tide) recede; lessen; diminish; N. OP. flow: rise of tide
bivouac	temporary encampment; camp without tents; V.
morbid	given to unwholesome or unhealthy thought; moody; characteristic of disease; Ex. morbid curiosity; N. morbidity; CF. disease
stipple	paint or draw with dots or short strokes
nugatory	worthless; futile
allege	state without proof
swear-word	word considered offensive; Ex. ``bloody''
repose	resting; state of being at rest; calmness; V: lie at rest; relax; put or place; Ex. repose our hopes in a single man
perspicacious	(of someone) having insight; penetrating; astute
disarray	state of disorder; a disorderly or untidy state; Ex. with her clothes in disarray
absolve	pardon (an offense)
proxy	authorized agent; authority to act for another
autopsy	examination of a dead body; postmortem; V.
default	failure to act; failure to perform a task or be present; V.
duress	forcible restraint, especially unlawfully; coercion by threat; illegal coercion; Ex. a promise made under duress
behemoth	huge creature; something of monstrous size or power
saboteur	 one who commits sabotage; destroyer of property; N. sabotage: destruction of property (usually carried out secretly)
impeccable	faultless
outspoken	candid; blunt
ramshackle	(of a building or vehicle) poorly constructed; rickety; falling apart
mentor	counselor; teacher
embroil	throw into confusion; involve in strife, dispute, or quarrel; entangle; CF. imbroglio
kaleidoscope	 tube in which patterns made by the reflection in mirrors of colored pieces of glass, etc. produce interesting symmetrical effects; series of changing events; Ex. kaleidoscope of European history; CF. beautiful
converse	opposite; ADJ.
usurp	seize another's power or rank (without legal authority); supplant; appropriate; N. usurpation; CF. take for one's own use
limber	flexible; supple; pliable; V.
barrister	counselor-at-law or lawyer in the higher court of law; CF. bar
plenitude	abundance; plenty; great amount; completeness; fullness; CF. plenary, plenty
oblivious	inattentive or unmindful; unaware; wholly absorbed; forgetful(having the habit of forgetting)
shoot	new growth from a plant
quip	taunt; clever sarcastic remark; V.
mores	conventions; moral standards; moral customs
jaded	tired or uninterested by surfeit; fatigued; surfeited; worn out; wearied; Ex. jaded appetite
presumptuous	going beyond what is right; excessively forward; arrogant; taking liberties
tart	sharp to the taste; acid-tasting; caustic; sarcastic; Ex. tart apple/reply
saga	Scandinavian myth; any legend; long heroic narrative
episodic	(of a story or play) loosely connected; made up of separate and loosely connected parts; N. episode: incident in the course of an experience
hideous	repulsive to the sight; ugly; repugnant; Ex. hideous face/scream
pterodactyl	extinct flying reptile; CF. wing+finger
rebate	return of part of a payment; discount; V.
supplicant	one who supplicates; ADJ.
arbitrate	act as judge (at the request of both sides)
pert	(esp. of a girl or young woman) impertinent; forward; trim; jaunty; Ex. pert young miss/hat
forgo(forego)	give up; do without
figurative	not literal but metaphorical; using a figure(impression) of speech
stifle	suppress; extinguish; inhibit; smother or suffocate
peripatetic	walking about from place to place (to work); moving; Ex. peripatetic school of philosophy
plumage	feathers of a bird;
whim	sudden capricious idea; fancy
extenuate	weaken; mitigate; lessen the seriousness of (bad behavior)
welt	raised mark from a beating or whipping
rejoinder	reply; retort; comeback; V. rejoin: say in reply
ravine	narrow valley with steep sides; gorge; CF. gully, canyon
renown	fame; ADJ. renowned
pendant(pendent)	hanging down from something; pending; N: ornament (hanging from a necklace etc.)
jabber	chatter rapidly or unintelligibly
sustain	suffer (harm or loss); experience; support; prop; maintain; keep in existence; nourish (to maintain life); Ex. sustain the family/the trapped miners
relic	surviving remnant (from an extinct culture); memento; keepsake; relics: corpse; Ex. ancient relics; Ex. relics of his travel; Ex. His relics are buried at X.
pillory	punish by placing in a wooden frame or pillory; subject or expose to criticism and ridicule; N.
wreak	inflict; Ex. wreak one's vengeance on
prodigy	highly gifted child; person with exceptional talents; marvel; wonder
utopia	ideal place, state, or society; ADJ. utopian
abolish	cancel; put an end to
consequential	self-important; significant; consequent; following as a result; Ex. consequential air; CF. subsequent
jocund	merry
assert	state strongly or positively; demand recognition of (rights, claims, etc.); make a claim to (by forceful action); Ex. assert one's independence
esteem	respect; value; judge; N.
vegetate	live in a monotonous way (without interests or activity); CF. vegetation: plants of an area; CF. vegetarian; CF. vegan
nicety	precision; accuracy; minute distinction or difference; Ex. to a nicety: exactly; precisely; Ex. distinguish between niceties
abominate	loathe; hate
infringe	violate (a law); encroach (the right of another person)
frustrate	thwart; defeat; prevent from accomplishing a purpose
arbiter	person with power to decide a matter in dispute; judge who is in a position ot make influential judgments; Ex. supreme arbiter of fashion in beachware
purse	pucker; contract (lips) into wrinkles; N: wallet
dauntless	bold; fearless
suitor	man who is courting a woman
pejorative	(of a word or phrase) suggesting that someone is of little value; negative in connotation; having a belittling effect; Ex. Many women now considers ``housewife'' a pejorative expression, because it patronized them.
amiss	wrong; faulty; Ex. something amiss; ADV.
precipitous	steep; overhasty; precipitate
paroxysm	fit or attack of pain, laughter, rage; sudden outburst
auroral	pertaining to the aurora borealis; CF. aurora australis
cloister	monastery or convent
acute	(of the senses) sharp; quickly perceptive; keen; penetrating; brief and severe; Ex. acute sense of smell/analysis/pain
regimen	prescribed course of diet or exercise; prescribed diet and habits; Ex. daily regimen of a dancer
discourse	serious speech, writing, or conversation; formal discussion (either written or spoken); conversation; V.
lassitude	languor; weariness; listlessness
Pandemonium	wild tumult(commotion); wild noisy disorder; CF. Paradise Lost
misnomer	wrong or improper name; incorrect designation
subtlety	perceptiveness; ingenuity; delicacy; ADJ. subtle: delicate; so slight as to be difficult to detect; able to make fine distinctions; clever; Ex. subtle mind/differences in meaning
draught	current of air (through a room or to a fire); act of pulling roads; act of swallowing liquid or amount of liquid swallowed at a time
propensity	natural inclination
trough	long narrow container for feeding farm animals; lowest point (of a wave, business cycle, etc.); long narrow depression as between waves
sonorous	resonant; producing a full deep sound; producing sound
matrix	point of origin; array of numbers or algebraic symbols; mold or die; Ex. the matrix of Western civilization
epitaph	inscription in memory of a dead person (as on a tombstone)
grisly	ghastly; horrifying; Ex. grisly remains of the bodies
libido	psychic and emotional energy or urges behind human activity; sexual desire
bid	command; utter (a greeting); offer as a price; N: offer of a price; amount offered; earnest effort to gain something; Ex. bid for freedom
luster	shine; gloss (of a polished surface)
plummet	fall sharply; fall straight down; Ex. Stock prices plummeted.
goad	urge on; drive with a goad; cause (someone) to do something by continued annoyance; Ex. They goaded him into doing it by saying he was a coward; N: sharp-pointed stick for driving cattle; stimulus; CF. annoy continually
recipient	receiver
devious	roundabout; erratic; deviating from the straight course; not straightforward; not completely honest; Ex. devious route
epitome	perfect example or embodiment; brief summary; Ex. epitome of good manners; V. epitomize: make an epitome of; be an epitome of; embody
predator	predatory animal or bird; predatory person; creature that seizes and devours another animal; person who robs or exploits others; ADJ. predatory: living by preying on other organisms; plundering; N. predation
quadruped	four-footed animal; ADJ. CF. biped
turbid	(of a liquid) having the sediment disturbed; muddy; thick
impute	attribute; ascribe; charge; N. imputation
growl	low, guttural, menacing sound (as of a dog)
impale	pierce (with a sharp point); Ex. impaled by the spear
hackles	hairs on back and neck, especially of a dog; Ex. make someone's hackles rise
rectitude	moral correctness; moral uprightness; moral virtue; correctness of judgment
topple	become unsteady and fall down
sedulous	diligent; assiduous; paying attention; N. sedulity
prank	mischievous trick
preponderance	superiority of power, quantity, etc.; V. preponderate: be greater in power, weight, or importance; ADJ. preponderant
cubicle	small chamber used for sleeping or work
urbane	suave; refined in manner; elegant
inequity	unfairness; ADJ. inequitable
scavenge	hunt through discarded materials for usable items or food; search, especially for food; N. scavenger: one who scavenges; animal that feeds on refuse and carrion
grovel	crawl or creep on ground; remain prostrate; behave in a servile manner
pique	irritation; resentment from wounded pride (eg. loss in a contest); V: provoke; arouse; annoy; cause to feel resentment; Ex. pique her curiosity
impoverish	make poor; deprive of natural strength or something important; Ex. impoverished soil
circumlocution	indirect or roundabout expression (by using an uncecessarily large number of words esp. when trying to avoid answering a difficult question directly)
speck	small piece or mark; Ex. speck of dust in the eye
hermitage	home of a hermit
morose	ill-humored; sullen; sullenly melancholy
impalpable	imperceptible(not easily understood); intangible; OP. palpable: tangible; easily perceptible
pinnacle	peak; highest point; acme; Ex. pinnacle of fame
gratuitous	given freely; unwarranted; uncalled for; done without good reason; Ex. gratuitous comment
contagion	infection (by contact); ADJ. contagious; CF. infectious: that can be passed by infection in the air
inception	start; beginning
provocative	arousing anger or sexual interest; annoying; Ex. provocative in tight jeans; V. provoke: incite to anger; cause (an unpleasant action or feeling); N. provocation
subsidiary	serving to assist; subordinate; secondary; of a subsidy; N.
prelate	church dignitary; priest of high position in the church (esp. bishop)
impersonal	not being a person; not showing personal feelings; Ex. impersonal force/manner/organization
epicure	connoisseur of food and drink; gourmet; ADJ. epicurean; CF. Epicurus
onslaught	vicious assault; fierce attack; Ex. unexpected onslaught of the enemy
dazzle	make blind with a sudden intense light; amaze; fill with wonder
opaque	dark; not transparent; N. opacity
purchase	secure grasp or hold; firm grasp or footing
sneak	move, give, or take in a quiet, stealthy way; N: one who sneaks; ADJ. sneaky
postmortem	autopsy; ADJ: occurring after death; of a postmortem
ventilate	admit fresh air into to replace stale air
flamboyant	ornate; highly elaborate; richly colored; ostentatious; showy; CF. flame
crabbed	sour; bad-tempered; peevish; difficult to read as handwriting
distraught	upset; distracted by anxiety; very anxious and troubled almost to the point of madness; Ex. distraught with grief/worry
plume	feather, esp. large or showy one; something that rises into the air (like the shape of a feather); Ex. plume of smoke: ??? ????
impenetrable	not able to be pierced or entered; beyond understanding; impossible to understand; Ex. impenetrable mystery
gawk	stare foolishly; look in open-mouthed awe
inevitable	unavoidable
eclectic	selective; composed of elements drawn from disparate sources; selecting individual elements from a variety of sources; N. eclecticism
delve	dig; search deeply; investigate
chip	lose a small piece from the surface or edge; N: small piece broken off something; CF. French fry; Potato chip/crisp
centaur	mythical figure, half man and half horse
somnolent	half asleep; drowsy; N. somnolence
tutelary	protective; pertaining to a guardianship; Ex. tutelary deities
rhetoric	art of effective communication; art of using language effectively and persuasively; style of speaking or writing; grandiloquent language; Ex. political rhetoric; ADJ. rhetorical; CF. rhetorical question: question to which no answer is expected as
nourishment	something that nourishes; food
caption	title; chapter heading; text under illustration
artisan	a manually skilled worker
portend	foretell; presage; be a sign or warning of; N. portent: sign; omen; forewarning
assurance	firm statement that something is certainly true; promise or pledge; certainty; confidence in one's own ability; self-confidence; Ex. In spite of all his assurances, he did not come back; Ex. assurance of his loyalty; Ex. The teacher lacked assuranc
indubitable	unable to be doubted; which cannot be doubted; unquestionable
ludicrous	laughable; ridiculous; trifling
studious	given to diligent study
agility	nimbleness; ability to move quickly
cordon	extended line of men or fortifications to prevent access or egress; V.
prestige	respect or admiration; impression produced by achievements or reputation; ADJ: causing admiration; ADJ. prestigious: having prestige
languish	lose animation or strength
marrow	soft fatty tissue that fills most bone cavities and is the source of blood cells
foible	small weakness of character; slight fault; CF. feeble
clasp	hold firmly within arms
dour	sullen; gloomy; stubborn
impel	drive or force onward; drive to take action; urge to action
chameleon	lizard that changes color in different situations
addle	make or become confused; muddle; drive crazy; become rotten (egg)
bicameral	two-chambered as a legislative body
jibe	agree; be in harmony with; gibe
plutocracy	society ruled by the wealthy
despise	look on with scorn; regard as worthless or distasteful; ADJ. despicable: contemptible
retrospective	looking back on the past; N. retrospection; V. retrospect
autonomous	self-governing; N. autonomy
attribute	essential quality; V: ascribe; explain
mannered	affected; not natural; Ex. mannered way of speech
retentive	holding; able to retain things (esp. facts in the mind); having a good memory
disheveled	untidy (of hair or clothing); V. dishevel
peevish	bad-tempered; irritable; V. peeve: make angry
stickler	perfectionist; person who insists things be exactly right
wangle	achieve by cleverness or trick; wiggle out; fake; Ex. She tried to wangle an invitation to the party.
chaffing	bantering; joking
adulterate	make impure or of poorer quality by adding inferior or tainted(contaminated) substances
manifestation	outward demonstration; manifesting; indication of the presence of something; Ex. manifestation of his pronounced musical bent
comestible	something fit to be eaten
resourceful	clever and imaginative (in dealing with difficult situations); N. resource, resourcefulness
riddle	pierce with holes; permeate or spread throughout; Ex. The gunman riddled the car with bullets; Ex. The whole report is riddled with errors; N. large sieve (separating earth from stone)
insuperable	insurmountable; unbeatable; Ex. insuperable difficulties
deplete	reduce; exhaust
nadir	 lowest point; point on the celestial sphere diametrically opposite the zenith
healthful	conducive to good health; Ex. healthful mountain air
prelude	introduction; introductory performance or event; forerunner
curtail	shorten; reduce
glower	scowl; glare; look or stare angrily
lateral	of or coming from the side
arcade	a covered passageway usually lined with shops
queue	line (of waiting people or vehicles)
prim	proper to the point of affectation; very precise and formal; exceedingly proper
gull	trick; deceive; hoodwink; N: person who is easily tricked; dupe
tacit	understood (without actually being expressed); not put into words; Ex. tacit agreement
lust	intense sexual desire; intense eagerness; V.
recluse	hermit; loner; ADJ. reclusive
pertinacious	holding tenaciously to an action; stubborn; persistent
awry	distorted; crooked; bent; Ex. Our plans have gone awry.
transcribe	copy; write a copy of; N. transcription
maritime	bordering on(adjacent to) the sea; nautical; of the ships or the sea; Ex. Maritime Provinces
revert	relapse; backslide; turn back to; return to the former owner; N. reversion
curator	superintendent; manager (in charge of a museum or a library)
lunar	pertaining to the moon
ardor	heat; passion; zeal; ADJ. ardent
abstruse	obscure; profound; difficult to understand
laconic	brief and to the point; using few words; terse
entrepreneur	businessperson (who assumes the risk of a business venture); contractor; ADJ. entrepreneurial
placate	pacify; bring peace to; conciliate; appease
unilateral	one-sided; involving or affecting only one side; Ex. unilateral declaration
fathomless	too deep to be measured or understood; unfathomable
preempt	prevent in advance; head off(forestall); forestall by acting first; appropriate for oneself before others; supplant; take the place of; displace; Ex. preempt any attempts; ADJ. preemptive
tribune	official of ancient Rome elected by the plebians to protect their rights; protector of the people
leery	(of someone) suspicious; wary; cautious
spatula	broad-bladed instrument used for spreading or mixing
iconoclastic	attacking cherished traditions; N. iconoclast: one who attacks traditional ideas; one who destroys sacred images
commiserate	feel or express pity or sympathy for
enterprise	willingness to take new ventures; initiative; business organization; plan (that is difficult or daring); Ex. their latest enterprise to sail round the world in a small boat
expenditure	payment or expense; expending; something expended; output; Ex. receipt for the expenditure; Ex. expenditure of all the energy
conception	beginning; forming of an idea; fertilization; V. conceive: form an idea in the mind; devise; become pregnant; CF. inception
egotistical	egotistic; excessively self-centered(egocentric); self-important; conceited
gregarious	sociable; (of an animal) tending to form a group
antithesis	contrast; direct opposite of or to; ADJ. antithetic or antithetical
magniloquent	boastful; pompous
navigable	(of a body of water) wide and deep enough to allow ships to pass through; (of a ship or aircraft) able to be steered
pare	cut away the outer covering or skin of (with a knife); trim; Ex. pare apples/expenses
deprecate	express disapproval of; deplore; protest against; belittle; ADJ. deprecatory
gush	(of liquid) pour out in large quantities from a hole; make an excessive display of feeling (without true feeling); Ex. Blood gushed from the wound.
amulet	charm; talisman; an object worn believed to protect against evil, bad luck
hazy	slightly obscure; misty; unclear; N. haze: light mist or smoke; confused state of mind
universal	characterizing or affecting all; general; present everywhere; of the universe; cosmic; Ex. universal agreement; Ex. a subject of universal interest
deference	courteous regard for another's wish; courteous yielding to another's wish or opinion (showing respect); ADJ. deferential; OP. effrontery
unwitting	not knowing; unaware; unintentional; Ex. She was their unwitting accomplice; Ex. unwitting insult; CF. wit: know
mutinous	unruly; rebellious; Ex. mutinous teenagers; N. mutiny: open rebellion; CF. mutineer
transparent	permitting light to pass through freely; easily detected; obvious; clear; Ex. transparent lie
traverse	go through or across
transgression	violation of a law; sin; V. transgress: go beyond (a limit); violate; do wrong
representational	(of a style of art) showing things as they actually appear in real life
soporific	sleep-causing; marked by sleepiness; drowsy
daub	smear (as with paint); cover with something sticky; Ex. daub one's clothes with mud/paint; N: small bit of sticky substance; Ex. a daub of paint
compact	agreement; contract; ADJ: tightly packed; firm; brief; concise; Ex. compact statement
craven	cowardly
fuss:	trouble or worry over trifles; make nervous; pay too much attention to; N: needless concern or worry (about a trivial thing); anxious nervous condition; display of attention; Ex. make a fuss over the baby
exemplify	show by example; furnish an example; serve as an example of; Ex. His pictures exemplify that sort of painting.
ironic	expressing irony; occurring in an unexpected and contrary manner
mayhem	injury to body; crime of willfully maiming or crippling a person; violent disorder; Ex. mayhem in the zoo; CF. maim
hostility	unfriendliness; hatred; enmity; ADJ. hostile
profligate	wasteful (of money); dissipated; wildly immoral; dissolute; N: profligate person; N. profligacy
obscure	dark; vague; unclear; not well known; Ex. obscure meaning/village; V: darken; cover; make unclear; Ex. obscure the moon/meaning
chary	cautious; unwilling to take risks; sparing or restrained about giving; OP. bold
fleck	spot; mark with flecks; N: small mark or spot
inclusive	tending to include all; all-inclusive; Ex. inclusive charge
whimsy	whim; tendency to behave amusingly strangely; Ex. story full of whimsy
ramble	wander aimlessly (physically or mentally); digress
bowdlerize	expurgate; CF. Thomas Bowdler
nettle	irritate; annoy; vex; ADJ. nettlesome
gleam	brief flash of light; glow; V.
stem	stop or check (the flow of); Ex. stem the bleeding from the slashed artery; N: main axis of a plant; stalk
luminary	celebrity (in a specific field); dignitary; object that gives light (as a celestial body)
curmudgeon	churlish, miserly individual; bad-tempered old person
glaze	cover with a thin and shiny surface; apply a glaze to; N: thin, smooth, shiny coating (as for pottery); Ex. unglazed pottery
nonsense	speech or writing with no meaning; foolish behavior or language; Ex. make (a) nonsense of: spoil; cause to fail
ethnic	relating to races
clavicle	collarbone
seamy	sordid; base; filthy; unwholesome; Ex. seamy side of city life
mollify	soothe an angry person
homage	honor; tribute; great respect; Ex. pay/do homage to
demerit	fault; bad quality
propitious	favorable; auspicious; advantageous; fortunate; Ex. propitious day/sign
tribunal	court of justice
cupidity	greed (for wealth); CF. cupid; CF. Cupid
drama	prose or verse composition to be performed by actors; play; exciting and unusual situation
seep	pass slowly through small openings; ooze; trickle; N. seepage
sleeper	one that achieves unexpected success; something originally of little value or importance that in time becomes very valuable
veracious	(of a person) truthful
amoral	nonmoral; having no understanding of right and wrong
shudder	shake uncontrollably; tremble; V.
residual	remaining; left over; of a residue; N: residue
syllogism	logical formula consisting of a major premise, a minor premise and a conclusion; deceptive or specious argument
comeback	retort; quick clever reply; return to former status
facetious	joking (often inappropriately); unserious; humorous
felicity	happiness; appropriateness (of a remark, choice, etc.); quality of being felicitous
murky	dark and gloomy; thick with fog; vague; Ex. murky night/fog; N. murk: partial or complete darkness; gloom
extrinsic	external; not essential or inherent; extraneous; OP. intrinsic
camp	group sharing a common cause or opinion
germinate	cause to sprout; sprout
baffle	frustrate; perplex
martinet	strict disciplinarian; person who demands total obedience to rules and orders; CF. Jean Martinet
pr\'ecis	abstract; concise summing up of main points; concise summary of a text
tawdry	cheap and gaudy; Ex. tawdry jewelry
obsequy	funeral ceremony
disport	amuse; Ex. disport oneself; CF. divert
obituary	death notice (esp. in a newspaper); ADJ.
irksome	annoying; tedious; V. irk: annoy
linguistic	pertaining to language
variegate	change the appearance of (by marking with different colors)
celestial	heavenly